src/includes/platforms/configuration/integrations/plugin.mdx, before:

The below pluggable integrations are snippets of code that augment functionality for specific applications and/or frameworks. Read on to understand what they do and how to enable them.

## How to Enable

Install the `@sentry/integrations` package and provide a new instance with your config to the `integrations` option. Include the plugin after the SDK has been loaded.

For example:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/enable-pluggable-integrations" />

Alternatively, you can add integrations lazily via `client.addIntegration()`.
This is useful if you only want to enable an integration in a specific environment or if you want to lazy-load an integration.
For all other cases, we recommend you use the `integrations` option.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/enable-pluggable-integrations-lazy" />

<PlatformSection notSupported={["react-native"]}>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript"]}>

### ExtraErrorData

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.ExtraErrorData`_

This integration extracts all non-native attributes from the `error` object and attaches them to the event as `extra` data. If the error object has a `.toJSON()` method, the `ExtraErrorData` integration will run it to extract additional information.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/extra-error-data" />

</PlatformSection>

### CaptureConsole

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.CaptureConsole`_

This integration captures all `Console API` calls and redirects them to Sentry using the SDK's `captureMessage` or `captureException` call, depending on the log level. It then re-triggers to preserve default native behavior:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/capture-console" />

### Debug

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.Debug`_

This integration allows you to inspect the contents of a processed event and `hint` object that gets passed to `beforeSend` or `beforeSendTransaction`. It will _always_ run as the last integration, no matter when it was registered.

Note that this is different than setting `debug: true` in your `Sentry.init` options, which will enable debug logging in the console.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/debug" />

</PlatformSection>

### HttpClient

<PlatformSection notSupported={["react-native"]}>

_(New in version 7.30.0)_

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["react-native"]}>

_(New in version 5.3.0)_

</PlatformSection>

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.HttpClient`_

This integration captures errors on failed requests from Fetch and XHR and attaches request and response information.

By default, error events don't contain header or cookie data. You can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/http-client" />

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

Due to the limitations of both the Fetch and XHR API, the cookie and header collection for both requests and responses is based on best effort. Certain headers may be missing in the event created by the integration.

</Alert>

### RewriteFrames

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.RewriteFrames`_

This integration allows you to apply a transformation to each frame of the stack trace. In the streamlined scenario, it can be used to change the name of the file frame it originates from, or it can be fed with an iterated function to apply any arbitrary transformation.

On Windows machines, you have to use Unix paths and skip the volume letter in the `root` option to enable it. For example, `C:\\Program Files\\Apache\\www` won’t work, however, `/Program Files/Apache/www` will.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/rewrite-frames" />

<PlatformSection notSupported={["react-native"]}>

### ReportingObserver

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.ReportingObserver`_

This integration hooks into the ReportingObserver API and sends captured events through to Sentry. It can be configured to handle only specific issue types.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/reporting-observer" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript"]}>

### ContextLines

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.ContextLines`_

This integration attaches source code of inline JavaScript inside the page's HTML (e.g. JS in `<script>` tags) to errors captured by the SDK.
Note that this integration _cannot_ collect source code from assets referenced by your HTML (e.g. `<script src="..." />`).

Generally, the Sentry backend tries to attach source code to these errors by fetching the page and extracting the respective lines.
However, in some cases, our backend might not be able to fetch the JavaScript file, for example if the file is only available for authenticated users.

Use this integration if you have inline JS code in HTML pages that can't be accessed by our backend, for example due to a login-protected page.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/contextlines" />

</PlatformSection>

Commit message:

apply review suggestions and streamline some sentences

src/includes/platforms/configuration/integrations/plugin.mdx, after:

The below pluggable integrations are snippets of code that augment functionality for specific applications and/or frameworks. Read on to understand what they do and how to enable them.

## How to Enable

Install the `@sentry/integrations` package and provide a new instance with your config to the `integrations` option. Include the plugin after the SDK has been loaded.

For example:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/enable-pluggable-integrations" />

Alternatively, you can add integrations lazily via `client.addIntegration()`.
This is useful if you only want to enable an integration in a specific environment or if you want to lazy-load an integration.
For all other cases, we recommend you use the `integrations` option.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/enable-pluggable-integrations-lazy" />

<PlatformSection notSupported={["react-native"]}>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript"]}>

### ExtraErrorData

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.ExtraErrorData`_

This integration extracts all non-native attributes from the `error` object and attaches them to the event as `extra` data. If the error object has a `.toJSON()` method, the `ExtraErrorData` integration will run it to extract additional information.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/extra-error-data" />

</PlatformSection>

### CaptureConsole

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.CaptureConsole`_

This integration captures all `Console API` calls and redirects them to Sentry using the SDK's `captureMessage` or `captureException` call, depending on the log level. It then re-triggers to preserve default native behavior:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/capture-console" />

### Debug

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.Debug`_

This integration allows you to inspect the contents of a processed event and `hint` object that gets passed to `beforeSend` or `beforeSendTransaction`. It will _always_ run as the last integration, no matter when it was registered.

Note that this is different than setting `debug: true` in your `Sentry.init` options, which will enable debug logging in the console.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/debug" />

</PlatformSection>

### HttpClient

<PlatformSection notSupported={["react-native"]}>

_(New in version 7.30.0)_

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["react-native"]}>

_(New in version 5.3.0)_

</PlatformSection>

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.HttpClient`_

This integration captures errors on failed requests from Fetch and XHR and attaches request and response information.

By default, error events don't contain header or cookie data. You can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/http-client" />

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

Due to the limitations of both the Fetch and XHR API, the cookie and header collection for both requests and responses is based on best effort. Certain headers may be missing in the event created by the integration.

</Alert>

### RewriteFrames

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.RewriteFrames`_

This integration allows you to apply a transformation to each frame of the stack trace. In the streamlined scenario, it can be used to change the name of the file frame it originates from, or it can be fed with an iterated function to apply any arbitrary transformation.

On Windows machines, you have to use Unix paths and skip the volume letter in the `root` option to enable it. For example, `C:\\Program Files\\Apache\\www` won’t work, however, `/Program Files/Apache/www` will.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/rewrite-frames" />

<PlatformSection notSupported={["react-native"]}>

### ReportingObserver

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.ReportingObserver`_

This integration hooks into the ReportingObserver API and sends captured events through to Sentry. It can be configured to handle only specific issue types.

Available options:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/reporting-observer" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript"]}>

### ContextLines

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.ContextLines`_

This integration adds source code from inline JavaScript of the current page's HTML (e.g. JS in `<script>` tags) to stack traces of captured errors.
It _can't_ collect source code from assets referenced by your HTML (e.g. `<script src="..." />`).

The `ContextLines` integration is useful when you have inline JS code in HTML pages that can't be accessed by Sentry's backend, for example, due to a login-protected page.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/contextlines" />

</PlatformSection>
