Interfaces
==========

Any additional value in the payload of an event which is not an attribute
(:doc:`attributes`) is assumed to be a data interface, where the key is
the Python path to the interface class name, and the value is the data
expected by the interface.  Interfaces are used in a variety of ways
including storing stacktraces, HTTP request information, and other
metadata.

For the most part interfaces are an evolving part of Sentry.  Like with
attributes, clients are expected to assume more can appear at any point in
the future.  More than that however, for on-premise installations of
Sentry the interfaces can be customized so client libraries should ideally
be written in a way that custom interfaces can be emitted.

Message Interface
-----------------

The message interface is a slightly improved version of the ``message``
attribute and can be used to split the log message from the log message
parameters:

.. describe:: logentry

    A standard message consisting of a ``message`` argugment, and an
    optional list of ``params`` for formatting.  The regular Python
    format string is supported (``%s``, ``%d`` etc.).

    If your message cannot be parameterized, then the message interface
    will serve no benefit.

    ``message`` must be no more than 1000 characters in length.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "message": "My raw message with interpreted strings like %s",
          "params": ["this"]
        }

Failure Interfaces
------------------

These interfaces are related to reporting of failures (errors, exceptions)
in an application.

.. describe:: exception

    An exception consists of a list of values. In most cases, this list
    contains a single exception, with an optional stacktrace interface.

    Each exception has a mandatory ``value`` argument and optional
    ``type`` and ``module`` arguments describing the exception class type
    and module namespace.

    Optionally a ``thread_id`` attribute can refer to a thread from the
    `threads` interface.

    Additionally an optional ``mechanism`` key can be sent with
    information about how the exception was delivered from a low level
    point of view.  Currently it supports the following nested sub
    attributes (the dot signifies a key in a sub object):
    ``mach_exception.exception_name``, ``mach_exception.code_name``,
    ``posix_signal.name`` and ``posix_signal.signal``.

    You can also optionally bind a stacktrace interface to an exception.
    The spec is identical to ``stacktrace``.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "values": [{
            "type": "ValueError",
            "value": "My exception value",
            "module": "__builtins__"
            "stacktrace": {
              "see": "stacktrace"
            }
          }]
        }

.. describe:: stacktrace

    A stacktrace contains a list of frames, each with various bits (most
    optional) describing the context of that frame. Frames should be
    sorted from oldest to newest.

    The stacktrace contains an element, ``frames``, which is a list of
    hashes.  Each hash must contain **at least** the ``filename``
    attribute. The rest of the values are optional, but recommended.

    Additionally, if the list of frames is large, you can explicitly tell
    the system that you’ve omitted a range of frames. The
    ``frames_omitted`` must be a single tuple two values: start and end.
    For example, if you only removed the 8th frame, the value would be (8,
    9), meaning it started at the 8th frame, and went until the 9th (the
    number of frames omitted is end-start). The values should be based on
    a one-index.

    The list of frames should be ordered by the oldest call first.

    Each frame must contain at least one of the following attributes:

    ``filename``
        The relative filepath to the call
    ``function``
        The name of the function being called
    ``module``
        Platform-specific module path (e.g. sentry.models.User)

    The following additional attributes are supported:

    ``lineno``
        The line number of the call
    ``colno``
        The column number of the call
    ``abs_path``
        The absolute path to filename
    ``context_line``
        Source code in filename at lineno
    ``pre_context``
        A list of source code lines before context_line (in order) –
        usually ``[lineno - 5:lineno]``
    ``post_context``
        A list of source code lines after context_line (in order) –
        usually ``[lineno + 1:lineno + 5]``
    ``package``
        The "package" the frame was contained in.  Depending on the
        platform this can be different things.  For C# it can be the name
        of the assembly, for native code it can be the path of the dynamic
        library etc.
    ``platform``
        This can override the platform for a single frame.  Otherwise the
        platform of the event is assumed.
    ``image_addr``
        Optionally an address of the debug image to reference.  If this is
        set and a known image is defined by ``debug_meta`` then
        symbolication can take place.
    ``instruction_addr``
        An optional instruction address for symbolication.  This should be
        a string as hexadecimal number with a ``0x`` prefix.
    ``symbol_addr``
        An optional address that points to a symbol.  We actually use the
        instruction address for symbolication but this can be used to
        calculate an instruction offset automatically.
    ``instruction_offset``
        The difference between instruction address and symbol address in
        bytes.
    ``in_app``
        Signifies whether this frame is related to the execution of the
        relevant code in this stacktrace. For example, the frames that
        might power the framework’s webserver of your app are probably not
        relevant, however calls to the framework’s library once you start
        handling code likely are.
    ``vars``
        A mapping of variables which were available within this frame
        (usually context-locals).

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "frames": [{
            "abs_path": "/real/file/name.py"
            "filename": "file/name.py",
            "function": "myfunction",
            "vars": {
              "key": "value"
            },
            "pre_context": [
              "line1",
              "line2"
            ],
            "context_line": "line3",
            "lineno": 3,
            "in_app": true,
            "post_context": [
              "line4",
              "line5"
            ],
          }],
          "frames_omitted": [13, 56]
        }

.. describe:: threads

    The threads interface allows you to specify the threads there were
    running at the time an event happened.  These threads can also contain
    stacktraces.  As per policy the thread that actually crashed with an
    exception should not have a stacktrace but instead the ``thread_id``
    attribute should be set on the exception and Sentry will connect the
    two.

    This interface supports multiple thread values in the ``values`` key.
    The following attributes are known for each value:

    ``stacktrace``:
        You can also optionally bind a stacktrace interface to the
        thread.  The spec is identical to ``stacktrace``.
    ``id``:
        The ID of the thread.  Typically an integer or short string.
        Needs to be unique among the threads.  An exception can set the
        ``thread_id`` attribute to cross reference this thread.
    ``crashed``:
        An optional bool to indicate that the thread crashed.
    ``current``:
        An optional bool to indicate that the thread was in the
        foreground.
    ``name``:
        an optional thread name.

Template Interface
------------------

This interface is useful for template engine specific reporting when
regular stacktraces do not contain template data.  This for instance is
required in the Django framework where the templates do not integrate into
the Python stacktrace.

.. describe:: template

    A rendered template.  This is generally used like a single frame in a
    stacktrace and should only be used if the template system does not
    provide proper stacktraces otherwise.

    The attributes ``filename``, ``context_line``, and ``lineno`` are
    required.

    ``lineno``
        The line number of the call
    ``abs_path``
        The absolute path to the template on the file system
    ``filename``
        The filename as it was passed to the template loader
    ``context_line``
        Source code in filename at lineno
    ``pre_context``
        A list of source code lines before context_line (in order) –
        usually ``[lineno - 5:lineno]``
    ``post_context``
        A list of source code lines after context_line (in order) –
        usually ``[lineno + 1:lineno + 5]``

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "abs_path": "/real/file/name.html"
          "filename": "file/name.html",
          "pre_context": [
            "line1",
            "line2"
          ],
          "context_line": "line3",
          "lineno": 3,
          "post_context": [
            "line4",
            "line5"
          ],
        }

Context Interfaces
------------------

The context interfaces provide additional context data.  Typically this is
data related to the current user, the current HTTP request.

.. describe:: contexts

    The ``contexts`` type can be used to defined almost arbitrary
    contextual data on the event.  It accepts an object of key, value
    pairs.  The key is the "alias" of the context and can be freely
    chosen.  However as per policy it should match the type of the context
    unless there are two values for a type.

    Example::

        {
            "os": {
                "type": "os",
                "name": "Windows"
            }
        }

    If the type is omitted it uses the alias as type.

    Unknown data for the contexts is rendered as a key/value list.

Context Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following types are known:

.. describe:: device

    This describes the device that caused the event.  This is most
    appropriate for mobile applications.

    Attributes:

    ``name``:
        the name of the device.  This is typically a hostname.
    ``family``:
        the family of the device.  This is normally the common part of
        model names across generations.  For instance ``iPhone`` would be
        a reasonable family, so would be ``Samsung Galaxy``.
    ``model``:
        The model name.  This for instance can be ``Samsung Galaxy S3``.
    ``model_id``:
        An internal hardware revision to identify the device exactly.
    ``arch``:
        The CPU architecture.
    ``battery_level``:
        If the device has a battery this can be an integer defining the
        battery level (in the range 0-100).
    ``orientation``:
        This can be a string ``portrait`` or ``landscape`` to define the
        orientation of a device.

.. describe:: os

    Defines the operating system that created the event.

    Attributes:

    ``name``:
        The name of the operating system
    ``version``:
        The version of the operating system
    ``build``:
        The internal build revision of the operating system
    ``kernel_version``:
        If known this can be an independent kernel version string.
        Typically this is something like the entire output of the uname
        tool.
    ``rooted``:
        An optional bool that defines if the OS has been jailbroken or
        rooted.

.. describe:: runtime

    This describes a runtime in more detail.  Typically this context is
    used multiple times if multiple runtimes are involved (for instance if
    you have a JavaScript application running on top of JVM)

    Attributes:

    ``name``:
        The name of the runtime.
    ``version``:
        The version identifier of the runtime.


Special Interfaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These interfaces are not contained below ``contexts`` but stored toplevel
as normal interface which highlights their special nature.  In particular
only one http request and one user can be set.

.. describe:: request

    The Request information is stored in the Http interface. Two arguments
    are required: url and ``method``.

    The ``env`` variable is a compounded dictionary of HTTP headers as
    well as environment information passed from the webserver. Sentry will
    explicitly look for ``REMOTE_ADDR`` in ``env`` for things which
    require an IP address.

    The data variable should only contain the request body (not the query
    string). It can either be a dictionary (for standard HTTP requests) or
    a raw request body.

    ``url``
        The full URL of the request if available.
    ``method``
        The actual HTTP method of the request.
    ``data``
        Submitted data in whatever format makes most sense.  This data
        should not be provided by default as it can get quite large
    ``query_string``
        The unparsed query string as it is provided.
    ``cookies``
        The cookie values.  Typically unparsed as a string.
    ``headers``
        A dictionary of submitted headers.  If a header appears multiple
        times it needs to be merged according to the HTTP standard for
        header merging.
    ``env``
        Optional environment data.  This is where information such as
        CGI/WSGI/Rack keys go that are not HTTP headers.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "url": "http://absolute.uri/foo",
          "method": "POST",
          "data": {
            "foo": "bar"
          },
          "query_string": "hello=world",
          "cookies": "foo=bar",
          "headers": {
            "Content-Type": "text/html"
          },
          "env": {
            "REMOTE_ADDR": "192.168.0.1"
          }
        }

.. describe:: user

    An interface which describes the authenticated User for a request.

    You should provide at least either an ``id`` (a unique identifier for
    an authenticated user) or ``ip_address`` (their IP address).

    ``id``
        The unique ID of the user.
    ``email``
        The email address of the user.
    ``ip_address``
        The IP of the user.
    ``username``
        The username of the user

    All other keys are stored as extra information but not specifically
    processed by sentry.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "id": "unique_id",
          "username": "my_user",
          "email": "foo@example.com",
          "ip_address": "127.0.0.1",
          "subscription": "basic"
        }


Breadcrumbs Interface
---------------------

**NOTE:** *Breadcrumbs are an experimental Sentry feature and may not yet be available.*

The breadcrumbs interface specifies a series of application events, or "breadcrumbs",
that occurred before the main event.

.. describe:: breadcrumbs

    An array of breadcrumbs. Breadcrumb entries are ordered from oldest to newest. The last breadcrumb
    in the array should be the last entry before the main event fired.

    Each breadcrumb has a few properties of which at least ``timestamp``
    and ``category`` must be provided.  The rest is optional and depending on what
    is provided the rendering might be different.

    ``timestamp``
      A timestamp representing when the breadcrumb occurred. This can be either an ISO datetime string,
      or a Unix timestamp.
    ``type``
      The type of breadcrumb. The default type is ``default`` which indicates
      no specific handling.  Other types are currently ``http`` for HTTP
      requests and ``navigation`` for navigation events.  More about types
      later.
    ``message``
      If a message is provided it's rendered as text where whitespace is
      preserved.  Very long text might be abbreviated in the UI.
    ``data``
      Data associated with this breadcrumb. Contains a sub-object whose
      contents depend on the breadcrumb ``type``. See descriptions of
      breadcrumb types below.  Additional parameters that are unsupported
      by the type are rendered as a key/value table.
    ``category``
      Categories are dotted strings that indicate what the crumb is or
      where it comes from.  Typically it's a module name or a descriptive
      string.  For instance `ui.click` could be used to indicate that a
      click happend in the UI or `flask` could be used to indicate that
      the event originated in the Flask framework.
    ``level``
      This defines the level of the event.  If not provided it defaults to
      ``info`` which is the middle level.  In the order of priority from
      highest to lowest the levels are ``critical``, ``error``,
      ``warning``, ``info`` and ``debug``.  Levels are used in the UI to
      emphasize and deemphasize the crumb.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        [{
          "timestamp": 1461185753845,
          "message": "Something happened",
          "category": "log",
          "data": {
            "foo": "bar",
            "blub": "blah"
          }
        }, {
          "timestamp": 1461185753847,
          "type": "navigation",
          "data": {
            "from": "/login",
            "to": "/dashboard"
          }
        }]

Breadcrumb Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Below are descriptions of individual breadcrumb types, and what their ``data`` properties look like.

.. describe:: default

    Describes an unspecified breadcrumb. This is typically a generic log message
    or something similar.  The ``data`` part is entirely undefined and as
    such completely rendered as a key/value table.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "timestamp": 1461185753845,
          "message": "Something happened",
          "category": "log",
          "data": {
            "key": "value"
          }
        }

.. describe:: navigation

    Describes a navigation breadcrumb. A navigation event can be a URL
    change in a web application, or a UI transition in a mobile or desktop
    application, etc.

    Its ``data`` property has the following sub-properties:

    ``from``
      A string representing the original application state / location.
    ``to``
      A string representing the new application state / location.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "timestamp": 1461185753845,
          "type": "navigation",
          "data": {
            "from": "/login",
            "to": "/dashboard"
          }
        }

.. describe:: http

    Describes an HTTP request breadcrumb. This represents an HTTP request
    transmitted from your application. This could be an AJAX request from
    a web application, or a server-to-server HTTP request to an API
    service provider, etc.

    Its ``data`` property has the following sub-properties:

    ``url``
      The request URL.
    ``method``
      The HTTP request method.
    ``status_code``
      The HTTP status code of the response.
    ``reason``
      A text that describes the status code.

    .. sourcecode:: json

        {
          "timestamp": 1461185753845,
          "type": "http",
          "data": {
            "url": "http://example.com/api/1.0/users",
            "method": "GET",
            "status_code": 200,
            "reason": "OK"
          }
        }

Debug Support
-------------

The debug support interface is only available during processing and is not
stored afterwards.

.. describe:: debug_meta

    This interface can provide temporary debug information that Sentry can
    use to improve reporting.  Currently it is used for symbolication
    only.

    Supported properties:

    ``sdk_info``:
        An object with the following attributes: ``dsym_type``,
        ``sdk_name``, ``version_major``, ``version_minor`` and
        ``version_patchlevel``.  If this object is provided then resolving
        system symbols is activated.  The values provided need to match
        uploaded system symbols to Sentry.
    ``images``:
        A list of debug images.  The ``type`` of the image must be
        provided and the other keys depend on the image type.

    Supported image types:

    ``apple``:
        The format otherwise matches the apple crash reports.  The
        following keys are supported: ``cpu_type``, ``cpu_subtype``,
        ``image_addr``, ``image_size``, ``image_vmaddr``, ``name`` and
        ``uuid``.  Note that it's recommended to use hexadecimal addresses
        (``"0x1234"``) instead of integers.
