src/platforms/javascript/common/session-replay/privacy.mdx, before:

---
title: Privacy
sidebar_order: 4200
notSupported:
  - javascript.cordova
  - javascript.wasm
description: "Configuring Session Replay to maintain user and data privacy."
---

<Include name="beta-note-session-replay.mdx" />

There are several ways to deal with personally identifiable information (PII). By default, the integration will mask all text content with `*` and block all media elements (`img`, `svg`, `video`, `object`, `picture`, `embed`, `map`, `audio`). This can be disabled by setting `maskAllText` to `false`. It's also possible to add the following CSS classes to specific DOM elements to prevent recording their contents: `sentry-block`, `sentry-ignore`, and `sentry-mask`. The following sections will show examples of how content is handled by the differing methods.

## Masking

Masking replaces the text content with something else. The default masking behavior is to replace each character with a `*`. Elements with class name `sentry-mask` or the attribute `data-sentry-mask` will be blocked. In this example, the relevant HTML code is: `<table class="sentry-mask">...</table>`:

![Replay PII Scrubbing example](masking.png)

## Blocking

Blocking replaces the element with a placeholder that has the same dimensions. The recording will show an empty space in place of the content. Elements with class name `sentry-block` or the attribute `data-sentry-block` will be blocked. In this example, the relevant HTML code is: `<table data-sentry-block>...</table>`:
![Blocking example](./blocking.png)

## Ignoring

Ignoring only applies to form inputs. Events will be ignored on the input element so that the replay doesn't show what occurs inside of the input. Any event on an input element with class name `sentry-ignore` or the attribute `data-sentry-ignore` will be ignored. Notice how the results in the table below show input changes, but no visible text:

![Ignoring Example](./ignoring.gif)

## Privacy Configuration

The following options can be configured as options to the integration, in `new Replay({})`:

| key           | type                     | default                                  | description                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mask          | string[]                 | `.sentry-mask, [data-sentry-mask]`       | Mask all elements that match the given DOM selectors. See [Masking](#masking) section for an example. Note that any configured selectors will be in _addition_ to the defaults. |
| maskAllText   | boolean                  | `true`                                   | Mask _all_ text content. Will pass text content through `maskTextFn` before sending to server.                                                                                  |
| maskAllInputs | boolean                  | `true`                                   | Mask values of `<input>` elements. Passes input values through `maskTextFn` before sending to server.                                                                           |
| block         | string[]                 | `.sentry-block, [data-sentry-block]`     | Redact all elements that match the DOM selector(s). See [Blocking](#blocking) section for an example. Note that any configured selectors will be in _addition_ to the defaults. |
| blockAllMedia | boolean                  | `true`                                   | Block _all_ media elements (`img`, `svg`, `video`, `object`, `picture`, `embed`, `map`, `audio`).                                                                               |
| ignore        | string[]                 | `.sentry-ignore, [data-sentry-ignore]`   | Ignores all events on the matching input fields. See [Ignoring](#ignoring) above for an example.                                                                                |
| maskTextFn    | (text: string) => string | `(text) => '*'.repeat(text.length)`      | Function to customize how text content is masked before sending to server. By default, masks text with `*`.                                                                     |
| unblock       | string[]                 | `.sentry-unblock, [data-sentry-unblock]` | Don't redact any elements that match the DOM selectors. Used to unblock specific media elements that are blocked with `blockAllMedia`.                                          |
| unmask        | string[]                 | `.sentry-unmask, [data-sentry-unmask]`   | Unmask all elements that match the given DOM selectors. Used to unmask specific elements that are masked with `maskAllText`.                                                    |

## Network Request and Response Bodies and Headers

Collecting request and response bodies is an opt-in feature. That's because the best way to avoid getting PII into Sentry is by not adding URLs of endpoints that may contain PII.
Additionally, Sentry attempts to [scrub](/product/data-management-settings/scrubbing/server-side-scrubbing/) certain types of sensitive data from request and response bodies, if you accidentally opt-in to a URL that includes this type of data. This mechanism happens on our ingestion service, before data hits our disks. This is a best effort approach which pattern-matches the content with things like credit card information, social security numbers, and [passwords](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Agetsentry%2Frelay%20PASSWORD_KEY_REGEX&type=code).

More details about this feature can be found in the [configuration page](/platforms/javascript/session-replay/configuration/#network-details).

### Deprecated Options

Note that the privacy API prior to version 7.35.0 has been deprecated and replaced with the options above. Please see the [Replay migration guide](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/blob/master/packages/replay/MIGRATION.md#upgrading-replay-from-7340-to-7350---6645) for further information.

Commit message:

replay: unmask doesnt affect password
Resolves https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/issues/6446

src/platforms/javascript/common/session-replay/privacy.mdx, after:

---
title: Privacy
sidebar_order: 4200
notSupported:
  - javascript.cordova
  - javascript.wasm
description: "Configuring Session Replay to maintain user and data privacy."
---

<Include name="beta-note-session-replay.mdx" />

There are several ways to deal with personally identifiable information (PII). By default, the integration will mask all text content with `*` and block all media elements (`img`, `svg`, `video`, `object`, `picture`, `embed`, `map`, `audio`). This can be disabled by setting `maskAllText` to `false`. It's also possible to add the following CSS classes to specific DOM elements to prevent recording their contents: `sentry-block`, `sentry-ignore`, and `sentry-mask`. The following sections will show examples of how content is handled by the differing methods.

## Masking

Masking replaces the text content with something else. The default masking behavior is to replace each character with a `*`. Elements with class name `sentry-mask` or the attribute `data-sentry-mask` will be blocked. In this example, the relevant HTML code is: `<table class="sentry-mask">...</table>`:

![Replay PII Scrubbing example](masking.png)

## Blocking

Blocking replaces the element with a placeholder that has the same dimensions. The recording will show an empty space in place of the content. Elements with class name `sentry-block` or the attribute `data-sentry-block` will be blocked. In this example, the relevant HTML code is: `<table data-sentry-block>...</table>`:
![Blocking example](./blocking.png)

## Ignoring

Ignoring only applies to form inputs. Events will be ignored on the input element so that the replay doesn't show what occurs inside of the input. Any event on an input element with class name `sentry-ignore` or the attribute `data-sentry-ignore` will be ignored. Notice how the results in the table below show input changes, but no visible text:

![Ignoring Example](./ignoring.gif)

## Privacy Configuration

The following options can be configured as options to the integration, in `new Replay({})`:

| key           | type                     | default                                  | description                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mask          | string[]                 | `.sentry-mask, [data-sentry-mask]`       | Mask all elements that match the given DOM selectors. See [Masking](#masking) section for an example. Note that any configured selectors will be in _addition_ to the defaults. |
| maskAllText   | boolean                  | `true`                                   | Mask _all_ text content. Will pass text content through `maskTextFn` before sending to server.                                                                                  |
| maskAllInputs | boolean                  | `true`                                   | Mask values of `<input>` elements. Passes input values through `maskTextFn` before sending to server.                                                                           |
| block         | string[]                 | `.sentry-block, [data-sentry-block]`     | Redact all elements that match the DOM selector(s). See [Blocking](#blocking) section for an example. Note that any configured selectors will be in _addition_ to the defaults. |
| blockAllMedia | boolean                  | `true`                                   | Block _all_ media elements (`img`, `svg`, `video`, `object`, `picture`, `embed`, `map`, `audio`).                                                                               |
| ignore        | string[]                 | `.sentry-ignore, [data-sentry-ignore]`   | Ignores all events on the matching input fields. See [Ignoring](#ignoring) above for an example.                                                                                |
| maskTextFn    | (text: string) => string | `(text) => '*'.repeat(text.length)`      | Function to customize how text content is masked before sending to server. By default, masks text with `*`.                                                                     |
| unblock       | string[]                 | `.sentry-unblock, [data-sentry-unblock]` | Don't redact any elements that match the DOM selectors. Used to unblock specific media elements that are blocked with `blockAllMedia`. This doesn't affect sensitive elements such as `password`.                                          |
| unmask        | string[]                 | `.sentry-unmask, [data-sentry-unmask]`   | Unmask all elements that match the given DOM selectors. Used to unmask specific elements that are masked with `maskAllText`.                                                    |

## Network Request and Response Bodies and Headers

Collecting request and response bodies is an opt-in feature. That's because the best way to avoid getting PII into Sentry is by not adding URLs of endpoints that may contain PII.
Additionally, Sentry attempts to [scrub](/product/data-management-settings/scrubbing/server-side-scrubbing/) certain types of sensitive data from request and response bodies, if you accidentally opt-in to a URL that includes this type of data. This mechanism happens on our ingestion service, before data hits our disks. This is a best effort approach which pattern-matches the content with things like credit card information, social security numbers, and [passwords](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Agetsentry%2Frelay%20PASSWORD_KEY_REGEX&type=code).

More details about this feature can be found in the [configuration page](/platforms/javascript/session-replay/configuration/#network-details).

### Deprecated Options

Note that the privacy API prior to version 7.35.0 has been deprecated and replaced with the options above. Please see the [Replay migration guide](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/blob/master/packages/replay/MIGRATION.md#upgrading-replay-from-7340-to-7350---6645) for further information.
