src/includes/sentry-cli-sourcemaps.mdx, before:

## 2. Configure Sentry CLI

<Note>

You can find installation instructions for Sentry CLI here: https://docs.sentry.io/product/cli/installation/

For more info on `sentry-cli` configuration visit the [Sentry CLI configuration docs](/product/cli/configuration/).

</Note>

Make sure `sentry-cli` is configured for your project. For that you can use environment variables:

<Note>

Visit the [auth token user settings page](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/) to find your auth tokens.

</Note>

```{filename:.env.local}
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=your-auth-token
SENTRY_ORG=___ORG_SLUG___
SENTRY_PROJECT=___PROJECT_SLUG___
```

## 3. Inject Debug IDs Into Artifacts

Debug IDs are used to match the stack frame of an event with its corresponding minified source and source map file. Visit [What are Artifact Bundles](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/troubleshooting_js/artifact-bundles/) if you want to learn more about Artifact Bundles and Debug IDs.

To inject Debug IDs, use the following command:

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps inject /path/to/directory
```

### Verify Debug IDs Were Injected in Artifacts

Minified source files should contain at the end a comment named `debugId` like:

```javascript {filename:example_minified_file.js}
...
//# debugId=<debug_id>
//# sourceMappingURL=<sourcemap_url>
```

Source maps should contain a field named `debug_id` like:

```json {filename:example_source_map.js.map}
{
    ...
    "debug_id":"<debug_id>",
    ...
}
```

## 4. Upload Artifact Bundle

After you've injected Debug IDs into your artifacts, upload them using the following command.

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload /path/to/directory
```

### Verify That Artifact Bundles Were Uploaded

Open up Sentry and navigate to **Project Settings > Source Maps**. If you choose “Artifact Bundles” in the tabbed navigation, you'll see all the artifact bundles that have been successfully uploaded to Sentry.

## Optional Steps

### Associating `release` with Artifact Bundle

Provide a `release` property in your SDK options.

```javascript
Sentry.init({
  // This value must be identical to the release name specified during upload
  // with the `sentry-cli`.
  release: "<release_name>",
});
```

Afterwards, run the `sourcemaps upload` command with the additional `--release` option. Please ensure that the value specified for `<release_name>` is the same value specified in your SDK options.

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> /path/to/directory
```

<Note>

Running `upload` with `--release` **doesn't automatically create a release in Sentry**. For that, you should create a release with the same name as a separate step in your pipeline or send the first event to Sentry with that release.

</Note>

### Associating `dist` with Artifact Bundle

In addition to `release`, you can also add a `dist` to your uploaded artifacts. For that, run the `sourcemaps upload` command with the additional `--dist` option.

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> --dist=<dist_name> /path/to/directory
```

## 5. Deploy your Application

If you're following this guide from your local machine, then you've successfully:

1. Generated minified source and source map files (artifacts) by running your application's build process
2. Injected Debug IDs into the artifacts you've just generated
3. Uploaded those artifacts to Sentry with our upload command

The last step is deploying a new version of your application using the generated artifacts you created in step one. **We strongly recommend that you integrate `sentry-cli` into your CI/CD Pipeline**, to ensure each subsequent deploy will automatically inject debug IDs into each artifact and upload them directly to Sentry.

Commit message:

sentry-cli-sourcemaps.mdx: Make TODO for explaining `dist`

src/includes/sentry-cli-sourcemaps.mdx, after:

## 2. Configure Sentry CLI

<Note>

You can find installation instructions for Sentry CLI here: https://docs.sentry.io/product/cli/installation/

For more info on `sentry-cli` configuration visit the [Sentry CLI configuration docs](/product/cli/configuration/).

</Note>

Make sure `sentry-cli` is configured for your project. For that you can use environment variables:

<Note>

Visit the [auth token user settings page](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/) to find your auth tokens.

</Note>

```{filename:.env.local}
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=your-auth-token
SENTRY_ORG=___ORG_SLUG___
SENTRY_PROJECT=___PROJECT_SLUG___
```

## 3. Inject Debug IDs Into Artifacts

Debug IDs are used to match the stack frame of an event with its corresponding minified source and source map file. Visit [What are Artifact Bundles](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/troubleshooting_js/artifact-bundles/) if you want to learn more about Artifact Bundles and Debug IDs.

To inject Debug IDs, use the following command:

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps inject /path/to/directory
```

### Verify Debug IDs Were Injected in Artifacts

Minified source files should contain at the end a comment named `debugId` like:

```javascript {filename:example_minified_file.js}
...
//# debugId=<debug_id>
//# sourceMappingURL=<sourcemap_url>
```

Source maps should contain a field named `debug_id` like:

```json {filename:example_source_map.js.map}
{
    ...
    "debug_id":"<debug_id>",
    ...
}
```

## 4. Upload Artifact Bundle

After you've injected Debug IDs into your artifacts, upload them using the following command.

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload /path/to/directory
```

### Verify That Artifact Bundles Were Uploaded

Open up Sentry and navigate to **Project Settings > Source Maps**. If you choose “Artifact Bundles” in the tabbed navigation, you'll see all the artifact bundles that have been successfully uploaded to Sentry.

## Optional Steps

### Associating `release` with Artifact Bundle

Provide a `release` property in your SDK options.

```javascript
Sentry.init({
  // This value must be identical to the release name specified during upload
  // with the `sentry-cli`.
  release: "<release_name>",
});
```

Afterwards, run the `sourcemaps upload` command with the additional `--release` option. Please ensure that the value specified for `<release_name>` is the same value specified in your SDK options.

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> /path/to/directory
```

<Note>

Running `upload` with `--release` **doesn't automatically create a release in Sentry**. For that, you should create a release with the same name as a separate step in your pipeline or send the first event to Sentry with that release.

</Note>

### Associating `dist` with Artifact Bundle

In addition to `release`, you can also add a `dist` to your uploaded artifacts. For that, run the `sourcemaps upload` command with the additional `--dist` option.

<Note>
  
  `dist` is useful for X. Sentry currently does not handle the release any different when using it, but it will show you this info.
  
</Note>

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> --dist=<dist_name> /path/to/directory
```

## 5. Deploy your Application

If you're following this guide from your local machine, then you've successfully:

1. Generated minified source and source map files (artifacts) by running your application's build process
2. Injected Debug IDs into the artifacts you've just generated
3. Uploaded those artifacts to Sentry with our upload command

The last step is deploying a new version of your application using the generated artifacts you created in step one. **We strongly recommend that you integrate `sentry-cli` into your CI/CD Pipeline**, to ensure each subsequent deploy will automatically inject debug IDs into each artifact and upload them directly to Sentry.
