src/platforms/dotnet/guides/aspnetcore/index.mdx, before:

---
title: ASP.NET Core
description: "Learn about Sentry's .NET integration with ASP.NET Core."
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/dotnet/aspnetcore/
---

Sentry provides an integration with _ASP.NET Core_ through the [Sentry.AspNetCore NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.AspNetCore).

<Note>

To enable tracing integration for ASP.NET Core, refer to <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation">this guide</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

## Overview of the features

- Easy ASP.NET Core integration, single line: `UseSentry`
- Captures unhandled exceptions in the middleware pipeline
- Captures exceptions handled by the framework `UseExceptionHandler` and Error page display
- Captures process-wide unhandled exceptions (AppDomain)
- Captures `LogError` or `LogCritical`
- Any event sent will include relevant application log messages
- RequestId as tag
- URL as tag
- Environment is automatically set (IHostingEnvironment)
- Release automatically set (`AssemblyInformationalVersionAttribute`, `AssemblyVersion` or environment variable)
- Request payload can be captured if opt-in
- Support for EventProcessors registered with DI
- Support for ExceptionProcessors registered with DI
- Supports configuration system (bind to `SentryAspNetCoreOptions`)
- Server OS info sent
- Server Runtime info sent
- Request headers sent
- HTTP Proxy configuration
- Request body compressed
- Event flooding protection (429 retry-after and internal bound queue)
- Assembly Strong named
- Tested on Windows, Linux and macOS
- Tested on .NET Core, .NET Framework and Mono

## Install

Add the Sentry dependency:

```powershell {tabTitle:Package Manager}
Install-Package Sentry.AspNetCore -Version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.aspnetcore') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:.NET Core CLI}
dotnet add package Sentry.AspNetCore -v {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.aspnetcore') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:Paket CLI}
paket add Sentry --version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.aspnetcore') }}
```

This package extends [Sentry.Extensions.Logging](/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/). This means that besides the ASP.NET Core related features, through this package you'll also get access to all the framework's logging integration and also the features available in the main [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) SDK.

### Configure

The simplest way to configure the `Sentry.AspNetCore` package is not by calling `SentrySdk.Init` directly but rather using the extension method `UseSentry` to the `WebHostBuilder` in combination with the framework's configuration system.
The configuration values bind to `SentryAspNetCoreOptions` which extends `SentryLoggingOptions` from the `Sentry.Extensions.Logging` and further extends `SentryOptions` from the `Sentry` package.

This means all options for the inner packages are available to be configured through the configuration system.

When using `WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`, the framework automatically loads `appsettings.json` and environment variables, binding to `SentryAspNetCoreOptions`.

For example:

<SignInNote />

```json {filename:appsettings.json}
  "Sentry": {
    "Dsn": "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    "MaxRequestBodySize": "Always",
    "SendDefaultPii": true,
    "MinimumBreadcrumbLevel": "Debug",
    "MinimumEventLevel": "Warning",
    "AttachStackTrace": true,
    "Debug": true,
    "DiagnosticsLevel": "Error"
  },
```

> An example of some of the options that can be configured via `appsettings.json`.

It's also possible to bind properties to the SDK via environment variables, like:

Windows

```shell
set Sentry__Debug=true
```

Linux or macOS

```shell
export Sentry__Debug=true
```

ASP.NET Core will automatically read this environment variable and bind it to the SDK configuration object.

When configuring the SDK via the frameworks configuration system, it's possible to add the SDK by simply calling `UseSentry` without providing any further information:

ASP.NET Core 2.x:

```csharp
public static IWebHost BuildWebHost(string[] args) =>
    WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        // Add the following line:
        .UseSentry()
```

```fsharp
let CreateHostBuilder args =
    WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        // Add the following line:
        .UseSentry()
```

ASP.NET Core 3.0:

```csharp
public static IHostBuilder CreateHostBuilder(string[] args) =>
    Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(webBuilder =>
        {
            // Add the following line:
            webBuilder.UseSentry();
        });
```

```fsharp
let CreateHostBuilder args =
    Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(fun webBuilder ->
            // Add the following line:
            webBuilder.UseSentry() |> ignore
        )
```

ASP.NET Core 6.0 With minimal API:

```csharp
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

builder.WebHost.UseSentry();

var app = builder.Build();

app.UseSentryTracing();
```

```fsharp
open Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder
open Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting
open Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting

[<EntryPoint>]
let main args =
    let builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args)
    builder.WebHost.UseSentry() // you'll need to include Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.

    let app = builder.Build()
    app.UseSentryTracing()

    app.Run()

    0 // Exit code

```

Some of the settings require actual code. For those, like the `BeforeSend` callback you can simply:

```csharp
.UseSentry(options =>
{
    options.SetBeforeSend(@event =>
    {
        // Never report server names
        @event.ServerName = null;
        return @event;
    });
})
```

```fsharp
.UseSentry (fun options ->
    options.SetBeforeSend(fun event ->
        // Never report server names
        event.ServerName <- null
        event
        )
    )
```

> Example modifying all events before they are sent to avoid server names being reported.

## Dependency Injection

Much of the behavior of the ASP.NET Core integration with Sentry can be customized by using the frameworks dependency injection system. That is done by registering your own implementation of some of the exposed abstraction.

### Lifetimes

The lifetime used will be respected by the SDK. For example, when registering a `Transient` dependency, a new instance of the processor is created for each event sent out to Sentry. This allows the use of non thread-safe event processors.

### Capturing the affected user

When opting-in to [SendDefaultPii](#senddefaultpii), the SDK will automatically read the user from the request by inspecting `HttpContext.User`. Default claim values like `NameIdentifier` for the _Id_ will be used.

If you wish to change the behavior of how to read the user from the request, you can register a new `IUserFactory` into the container:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSingleton<IUserFactory, MyUserFactory>();
}
```

```fsharp
member this.ConfigureServices(services: IServiceCollection) =
    services.AddSingleton<IUserFactory, MyUserFactory>() |> ignore
```

### Adding event and exception processors

Event processors and exception processors can be added via DI:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddTransient<ISentryEventProcessor, MyEventProcessor>();
    services.AddScoped<ISentryEventExceptionProcessor, MyExceptionProcessor>();
}
```

```fsharp
member this.ConfigureServices(services: IServiceCollection) =
    services.AddTransient<ISentryEventProcessor, MyEventProcessor>() |> ignore
    services.AddScoped<ISentryEventExceptionProcessor, MyExceptionProcessor>() |> ignore
```

## Options and Initialization

As previously mentioned, this package is a wrapper around [Sentry.Extensions.Logging](/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/) and [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/). Please refer to the documentation of these packages to get the options that are defined at those levels.

Below, the options that are specific to `Sentry.AspNetCore` will be described.

### SendDefaultPii

Although this setting is part of the [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) package, in the context of ASP.NET Core, it means reporting the user by reading the frameworks `HttpContext.User`. The strategy to create the `SentryUser` can be customized. Please read [retrieving user info](#capturing-the-affected-user) for more.

### Environment

The environment name is automatically populated by reading the frameworks `IHostingEnvironment` value.

This option is part of the [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) package. The value of `IHostingEnvironment` will only be used if **no other method was used**.

Methods that take precedence over `IHostingEnvironment` are:

- Programmatically: `options.Environment`
- Environment variable _SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT_
- Configuration system like `appsettings.json`

### MaxRequestBodySize

This parameter controls whether integrations should capture HTTP request bodies. It can be set to one of the following values:

- `None`: Request bodies are never sent.
- `Small`: Only small request bodies will be captured. The cutoff for small depends on the SDK (typically 4KB).
- `Medium`: Medium and small requests will be captured (typically 10KB).
- `Always`: The SDK will always capture the request body as long as Sentry can make sense of it.

If the request bodies should be captured, all requests will have the `EnableRewind` method invoked. This is done so that the request data can be read later, in case an error happens while processing the request.

### IncludeActivityData

Opt-in to capture values from [System.Diagnostic.Activity](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/ActivityUserGuide.md) if one exists.

## Samples

- A [simple example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.AspNetCore.Basic) without MVC. (**C#**)
- An [example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.AspNetCore.Mvc) using MVC and most of the SDK features. (**C#**)
- An [example](https://github.com/sentry-demos/giraffe) using Giraffe on top of ASP.NET Core with a basic overview of available features. (**F#**)
- For [more samples](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet-samples) of the .NET SDKs.

## Tunnel

If events are being logged to Sentry from the client-side, then you should use a [tunnel](/platforms/javascript/troubleshooting/#using-the-tunnel-option).

A tunnel is an HTTP endpoint that acts as a proxy between Sentry and your application. Because you control this server, there is no risk of any requests sent to it being blocked.

### Usage

- Add to the container by calling `AddSentryTunneling();` on `IServiceCollection`.
- Add the web app by calling `UseSentryTunneling();` on `IApplicationBuilder`.
- In the client-side JavaScript configuration, ensure the tunnel option is used:

<SignInNote />

```javascript
Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  tunnel: "/tunnel",
});
```

The [AspNetCore.Mvc sample](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.AspNetCore.Mvc) uses this approach.

Commit message:

Reduce the list of features so it doesn't take up so much of the first page.

src/platforms/dotnet/guides/aspnetcore/index.mdx, after:

---
title: ASP.NET Core
description: "Learn about Sentry's .NET integration with ASP.NET Core."
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/dotnet/aspnetcore/
---

Sentry provides an integration with _ASP.NET Core_ through the [Sentry.AspNetCore NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.AspNetCore).

<Note>

To enable tracing integration for ASP.NET Core, refer to <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation">this guide</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

## Overview of the features

- Easy ASP.NET Core integration, single line: `UseSentry`
- Captures unhandled exceptions and exceptions with [custom exception handlers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/error-handling?view=aspnetcore-7.0#exception-handler-page)
- Captures `LogError` or `LogCritical`
- Any event sent will include relevant application log messages
- Automatically capture request info, browser details, ServerOS and Runtime info, release information etc.
- Capture Request headers and, if you opt in, Request payload
- Support for EventProcessors and ExceptionProcessors (registered via Dependency Injection)
- Supports configuration system (bind to `SentryAspNetCoreOptions`)
- HTTP Proxy configuration
- Event flooding protection (429 retry-after and internal bound queue)
- Tested on Windows, macOS, Linux, .NET Core, .NET Framework and Mono

## Install

Add the Sentry dependency:

```powershell {tabTitle:Package Manager}
Install-Package Sentry.AspNetCore -Version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.aspnetcore') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:.NET Core CLI}
dotnet add package Sentry.AspNetCore -v {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.aspnetcore') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:Paket CLI}
paket add Sentry --version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.aspnetcore') }}
```

This package extends [Sentry.Extensions.Logging](/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/). This means that besides the ASP.NET Core related features, through this package you'll also get access to all the framework's logging integration and also the features available in the main [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) SDK.

### Configure

The simplest way to configure the `Sentry.AspNetCore` package is not by calling `SentrySdk.Init` directly but rather using the extension method `UseSentry` to the `WebHostBuilder` in combination with the framework's configuration system.
The configuration values bind to `SentryAspNetCoreOptions` which extends `SentryLoggingOptions` from the `Sentry.Extensions.Logging` and further extends `SentryOptions` from the `Sentry` package.

This means all options for the inner packages are available to be configured through the configuration system.

When using `WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`, the framework automatically loads `appsettings.json` and environment variables, binding to `SentryAspNetCoreOptions`.

For example:

<SignInNote />

```json {filename:appsettings.json}
  "Sentry": {
    "Dsn": "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    "MaxRequestBodySize": "Always",
    "SendDefaultPii": true,
    "MinimumBreadcrumbLevel": "Debug",
    "MinimumEventLevel": "Warning",
    "AttachStackTrace": true,
    "Debug": true,
    "DiagnosticsLevel": "Error"
  },
```

> An example of some of the options that can be configured via `appsettings.json`.

It's also possible to bind properties to the SDK via environment variables, like:

Windows

```shell
set Sentry__Debug=true
```

Linux or macOS

```shell
export Sentry__Debug=true
```

ASP.NET Core will automatically read this environment variable and bind it to the SDK configuration object.

When configuring the SDK via the frameworks configuration system, it's possible to add the SDK by simply calling `UseSentry` without providing any further information:

ASP.NET Core 2.x:

```csharp
public static IWebHost BuildWebHost(string[] args) =>
    WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        // Add the following line:
        .UseSentry()
```

```fsharp
let CreateHostBuilder args =
    WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        // Add the following line:
        .UseSentry()
```

ASP.NET Core 3.0:

```csharp
public static IHostBuilder CreateHostBuilder(string[] args) =>
    Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(webBuilder =>
        {
            // Add the following line:
            webBuilder.UseSentry();
        });
```

```fsharp
let CreateHostBuilder args =
    Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
        .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(fun webBuilder ->
            // Add the following line:
            webBuilder.UseSentry() |> ignore
        )
```

ASP.NET Core 6.0 With minimal API:

```csharp
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

builder.WebHost.UseSentry();

var app = builder.Build();

app.UseSentryTracing();
```

```fsharp
open Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder
open Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting
open Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting

[<EntryPoint>]
let main args =
    let builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args)
    builder.WebHost.UseSentry() // you'll need to include Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.

    let app = builder.Build()
    app.UseSentryTracing()

    app.Run()

    0 // Exit code

```

Some of the settings require actual code. For those, like the `BeforeSend` callback you can simply:

```csharp
.UseSentry(options =>
{
    options.SetBeforeSend(@event =>
    {
        // Never report server names
        @event.ServerName = null;
        return @event;
    });
})
```

```fsharp
.UseSentry (fun options ->
    options.SetBeforeSend(fun event ->
        // Never report server names
        event.ServerName <- null
        event
        )
    )
```

> Example modifying all events before they are sent to avoid server names being reported.

## Dependency Injection

Much of the behavior of the ASP.NET Core integration with Sentry can be customized by using the frameworks dependency injection system. That is done by registering your own implementation of some of the exposed abstraction.

### Lifetimes

The lifetime used will be respected by the SDK. For example, when registering a `Transient` dependency, a new instance of the processor is created for each event sent out to Sentry. This allows the use of non thread-safe event processors.

### Capturing the affected user

When opting-in to [SendDefaultPii](#senddefaultpii), the SDK will automatically read the user from the request by inspecting `HttpContext.User`. Default claim values like `NameIdentifier` for the _Id_ will be used.

If you wish to change the behavior of how to read the user from the request, you can register a new `IUserFactory` into the container:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSingleton<IUserFactory, MyUserFactory>();
}
```

```fsharp
member this.ConfigureServices(services: IServiceCollection) =
    services.AddSingleton<IUserFactory, MyUserFactory>() |> ignore
```

### Adding event and exception processors

Event processors and exception processors can be added via DI:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddTransient<ISentryEventProcessor, MyEventProcessor>();
    services.AddScoped<ISentryEventExceptionProcessor, MyExceptionProcessor>();
}
```

```fsharp
member this.ConfigureServices(services: IServiceCollection) =
    services.AddTransient<ISentryEventProcessor, MyEventProcessor>() |> ignore
    services.AddScoped<ISentryEventExceptionProcessor, MyExceptionProcessor>() |> ignore
```

## Options and Initialization

As previously mentioned, this package is a wrapper around [Sentry.Extensions.Logging](/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/) and [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/). Please refer to the documentation of these packages to get the options that are defined at those levels.

Below, the options that are specific to `Sentry.AspNetCore` will be described.

### SendDefaultPii

Although this setting is part of the [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) package, in the context of ASP.NET Core, it means reporting the user by reading the frameworks `HttpContext.User`. The strategy to create the `SentryUser` can be customized. Please read [retrieving user info](#capturing-the-affected-user) for more.

### Environment

The environment name is automatically populated by reading the frameworks `IHostingEnvironment` value.

This option is part of the [Sentry](/platforms/dotnet/) package. The value of `IHostingEnvironment` will only be used if **no other method was used**.

Methods that take precedence over `IHostingEnvironment` are:

- Programmatically: `options.Environment`
- Environment variable _SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT_
- Configuration system like `appsettings.json`

### MaxRequestBodySize

This parameter controls whether integrations should capture HTTP request bodies. It can be set to one of the following values:

- `None`: Request bodies are never sent.
- `Small`: Only small request bodies will be captured. The cutoff for small depends on the SDK (typically 4KB).
- `Medium`: Medium and small requests will be captured (typically 10KB).
- `Always`: The SDK will always capture the request body as long as Sentry can make sense of it.

If the request bodies should be captured, all requests will have the `EnableRewind` method invoked. This is done so that the request data can be read later, in case an error happens while processing the request.

### IncludeActivityData

Opt-in to capture values from [System.Diagnostic.Activity](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/ActivityUserGuide.md) if one exists.

## Samples

- A [simple example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.AspNetCore.Basic) without MVC. (**C#**)
- An [example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.AspNetCore.Mvc) using MVC and most of the SDK features. (**C#**)
- An [example](https://github.com/sentry-demos/giraffe) using Giraffe on top of ASP.NET Core with a basic overview of available features. (**F#**)
- For [more samples](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet-samples) of the .NET SDKs.

## Tunnel

If events are being logged to Sentry from the client-side, then you should use a [tunnel](/platforms/javascript/troubleshooting/#using-the-tunnel-option).

A tunnel is an HTTP endpoint that acts as a proxy between Sentry and your application. Because you control this server, there is no risk of any requests sent to it being blocked.

### Usage

- Add to the container by calling `AddSentryTunneling();` on `IServiceCollection`.
- Add the web app by calling `UseSentryTunneling();` on `IApplicationBuilder`.
- In the client-side JavaScript configuration, ensure the tunnel option is used:

<SignInNote />

```javascript
Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  tunnel: "/tunnel",
});
```

The [AspNetCore.Mvc sample](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.AspNetCore.Mvc) uses this approach.
