src/platforms/android/enhance-errors/proguard.mdx, before:

---
title: ProGuard & DexGuard
sidebar_order: 100
description: "Learn about using the Sentry Gradle Plugin or sentry-cli to upload ProGuard/R8 and DexGuard mappings to Sentry."
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/android/proguard/
---

If you want to see de-obfuscated stack traces, you'll need to use [ProGuard](https://www.guardsquare.com/proguard) with Sentry. To do so, upload the ProGuard mapping files by either the recommended method of using our [Gradle integration](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) or manually by using [sentry-cli](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload).

It works the same either way. A (random) UUID will be or has to be generated and placed into the `AndroidManifest.xml`. The same UUID has to be used to upload the mapping file(s). In case a crash happens in the app, the Sentry Android SDK will send the UUID along with the stacktrace to the Sentry server instance. Sentry will then de-obfuscate the stacktrace by searching for the associated mapping file with the same UUID.

Support for Guardsquare's ProGuard and [DexGuard](https://www.guardsquare.com/dexguard) was added in version 3.0.0 of the [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/).

<Note>

The Android SDK ships with ProGuard rules automatically defined; no further configuration is needed.

</Note>

## In-app Frames

If you have an deobfuscated build, the Android SDK will automatically set all frames coming from the app as in-app, based on the `applicationId/packageName`. This is not possible on the client side for obfuscated builds. However, you can define server-side rules for identifying the in-app frames, for example:

```discover {tabTitle:Enhancement Rules}
stack.module:com.mycompany.** +app
```

For more information see [StackTrace Rules](/product/data-management-settings/event-grouping/stack-trace-rules/#mark-in-app-frames).

Commit message:

added source context mention to recent Android highlights, proguard and common source context

src/platforms/android/enhance-errors/proguard.mdx, after:

---
title: ProGuard & DexGuard
sidebar_order: 100
description: "Learn about using the Sentry Gradle Plugin or sentry-cli to upload ProGuard/R8 and DexGuard mappings to Sentry."
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/android/proguard/
---

If you want to see de-obfuscated stack traces, you'll need to use [ProGuard](https://www.guardsquare.com/proguard) with Sentry. To do so, upload the ProGuard mapping files by either the recommended method of using our [Gradle integration](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) or manually by using [sentry-cli](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload).

It works the same either way. A (random) UUID will be or has to be generated and placed into the `AndroidManifest.xml`. The same UUID has to be used to upload the mapping file(s). In case a crash happens in the app, the Sentry Android SDK will send the UUID along with the stacktrace to the Sentry server instance. Sentry will then de-obfuscate the stacktrace by searching for the associated mapping file with the same UUID.

If [Source Context](/product/enhance-errors/source-context) is enable, Sentry can show snippets of code (_source context_) around the location of stack frames, which helps to quickly pinpoint problematic code.

Support for Guardsquare's ProGuard and [DexGuard](https://www.guardsquare.com/dexguard) was added in version 3.0.0 of the [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/).

<Note>

The Android SDK ships with ProGuard rules automatically defined; no further configuration is needed.

</Note>

## In-app Frames

If you have an deobfuscated build, the Android SDK will automatically set all frames coming from the app as in-app, based on the `applicationId/packageName`. This is not possible on the client side for obfuscated builds. However, you can define server-side rules for identifying the in-app frames, for example:

```discover {tabTitle:Enhancement Rules}
stack.module:com.mycompany.** +app
```

For more information see [StackTrace Rules](/product/data-management-settings/event-grouping/stack-trace-rules/#mark-in-app-frames).
