src/platform-includes/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/python.mdx, before:

<Alert title="Note" level="note">

Distributed tracing **works out of the box** for the following frameworks: <a href="/platforms/python/guides/django/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Django</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/fastapi/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">FastAPI</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/flask/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Flask</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/bottle/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Bottle</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/falcon/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Falcon</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/pyramid/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Pyramid</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/quart/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Quart</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/starlette/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Starlette</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/tornado/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Tornado</a>.

If you are using one of the frameworks listed above, **you do not need to do anything** for distributed tracing to work!

You can stop reading this page now and continue building an amazing product.

</Alert>

Please read the note above. If you have a vanilla Python project or use an unsupported framework you can still add distributed tracing to your project but need to it "by hand".

Two things need to be done for distributed tracing to work:

- When receiving incoming requests, extract and store incoming tracing information.
- When doing outgoing requests, inject tracing information to the outgoing request.

To learn more see also: <PlatformLink to="/distributed-tracing/#how-does-distributed-tracing-work-in-sentry">How Does Distributed Tracing Work in Sentry?</PlatformLink>

## Extract Incoming Tracing Information

Incoming tracing information has to be extracted and stored in memory for later use.
This incoming tracing information can come from different places:

- In a web environment it will be sent with HTTP headers. (for example by another Sentry SDK used in your front end project)
- In a job queue (like Celery) the tracing information can be retrieved from meta or header variables.
- You also can pick up tracing information from environment variables.

Whenever an incoming requests is processed by your project you need to do the following:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from my_project import get_incoming_headers_as_dict

headers = get_incoming_headers_as_dict()

sentry_sdk.continue_trace(headers)
```

In this example `get_incoming_headers_as_dict()` returns a dictorary that contains the tracing information. This dictionary would have been populated with information from HTTP headers, environment variables, or any other mechanism your project uses to communicate with the outside world.

Sentry's `continue_from_trace()` will extract the given headers and try to find the `sentry-trace` and `baggage` headers and it will store them in memory for later use.

## Inject Tracing Information to Outgoing Requests

On outgoing requests you have to add the two headers `sentry-trace` and `baggage` that you extracted and stored earlier.

<Alert title="Note" level="note">

If you are doing outgoing HTTP requests with <a href="https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/">Requests</a>, <a href="https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/">AIOHTTP</a>, the low level <a href="https://docs.python.org/3/library/http.client.html">http.client</a> (or <a href="https://docs.python.org/2/library/httplib.html">httplib</a> on Pyton 2) the parsed and stored tracing information is added automatically to outgoing requests. You do not need to do anything!

</Alert>

If you are do outgoing requests in another way you can generate the tracing information like follows:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from my_project import make_an_outgoing_request

headers = {}
headers["sentry-trace"] = sentry_sdk.get_traceparent()
headers["baggage"] = sentry_sdk.get_baggage()

make_an_outgoing_request(to="https://example.com", headers=headers)
```

Now tracing information is propagated to the project running at `https://example.com`. If it has the Python SDK running, it will extract and save the tracing information for later use.

The two services are now connected with your custom distributed tracing implementation.

### Inject Tracing Information Into Rendered HTML

If you want to propagate tracing information into Javascript that is running in your rendered HTML you have to inject HTML `meta` tags into your rendered HTML:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from my_project import render

meta = ""
meta += '<meta name="sentry-trace" content="%s">' % sentry_sdk.get_traceparent()
meta += '<meta name="baggage" content="%s">' % sentry_sdk.get_baggage()

html = """
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8">
        {additional_meta}
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>This is a website.</p>
    </body>
</html>
""".format(additional_meta=meta)

render(html)

```

## Verification

If you make outgoing requests from your project to other services, check if the headers `sentry-trace` and `baggage` are present in the request. If so distributed tracing is working.

Commit message:

distributed tracing with performance monitoring

src/platform-includes/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/python.mdx, after:

<Alert title="Note" level="note">

Distributed tracing **works out of the box** for the following frameworks: <a href="/platforms/python/guides/django/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Django</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/fastapi/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">FastAPI</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/flask/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Flask</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/bottle/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Bottle</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/falcon/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Falcon</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/pyramid/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Pyramid</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/quart/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Quart</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/starlette/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Starlette</a>, <a href="/platforms/python/guides/tornado/distributed-tracing/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/">Tornado</a>.

If you are using one of the frameworks listed above, **you do not need to do anything** for distributed tracing to work!

You can stop reading this page now and continue building an amazing product.

</Alert>

Please read the note above. If you have a vanilla Python project or use an unsupported framework you can still add distributed tracing to your project but need to it "by hand".

Two things need to be done for distributed tracing to work:

- When receiving incoming requests, extract and store incoming tracing information.
- When doing outgoing requests, inject tracing information to the outgoing request.

To learn more see also: <PlatformLink to="/distributed-tracing/#how-does-distributed-tracing-work-in-sentry">How Does Distributed Tracing Work in Sentry?</PlatformLink>

## Extract Incoming Tracing Information

Incoming tracing information has to be extracted and stored in memory for later use.
This incoming tracing information can come from different places:

- In a web environment it will be sent with HTTP headers. (for example by another Sentry SDK used in your front end project)
- In a job queue (like Celery) the tracing information can be retrieved from meta or header variables.
- You also can pick up tracing information from environment variables.

Whenever an incoming requests is processed by your project you need to do the following:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from my_project import get_incoming_headers_as_dict

headers = get_incoming_headers_as_dict()

sentry_sdk.continue_trace(headers)
```

In this example `get_incoming_headers_as_dict()` returns a dictorary that contains the tracing information. This dictionary would have been populated with information from HTTP headers, environment variables, or any other mechanism your project uses to communicate with the outside world.

Sentry's `continue_from_trace()` will extract the given headers and try to find the `sentry-trace` and `baggage` headers and it will store them in memory for later use.

### Performance Monitoring in Combination With Distributed Tracing

If you want to add new transactions and spans to the trace described in the incoming headers you can do this. `continue_from_trace()` returns a transaction object that you can use to start a custom transaction:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from my_project import get_incoming_headers_as_dict, do_some_heavy_lifting

headers = get_incoming_headers_as_dict()

transaction = sentry_sdk.continue_trace(headers)

with start_transaction(transaction=transaction) as transaction:
    do_some_heavy_lifting()
```

See the [Performance Monitoring Documentation](/performance/instrumentation/custom-instrumentation/) to learn what you can do with transactions.

## Inject Tracing Information to Outgoing Requests

On outgoing requests you have to add the two headers `sentry-trace` and `baggage` that you extracted and stored earlier.

<Alert title="Note" level="note">

If you are doing outgoing HTTP requests with <a href="https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/">Requests</a>, <a href="https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/">AIOHTTP</a>, the low level <a href="https://docs.python.org/3/library/http.client.html">http.client</a> (or <a href="https://docs.python.org/2/library/httplib.html">httplib</a> on Pyton 2) the parsed and stored tracing information is added automatically to outgoing requests. You do not need to do anything!

</Alert>

If you are do outgoing requests in another way you can generate the tracing information like follows:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from my_project import make_an_outgoing_request

headers = {}
headers["sentry-trace"] = sentry_sdk.get_traceparent()
headers["baggage"] = sentry_sdk.get_baggage()

make_an_outgoing_request(to="https://example.com", headers=headers)
```

Now tracing information is propagated to the project running at `https://example.com`. If it has the Python SDK running, it will extract and save the tracing information for later use.

The two services are now connected with your custom distributed tracing implementation.

### Inject Tracing Information Into Rendered HTML

If you want to propagate tracing information into Javascript that is running in your rendered HTML you have to inject HTML `meta` tags into your rendered HTML:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from my_project import render

meta = ""
meta += '<meta name="sentry-trace" content="%s">' % sentry_sdk.get_traceparent()
meta += '<meta name="baggage" content="%s">' % sentry_sdk.get_baggage()

html = """
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8">
        {additional_meta}
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>This is a website.</p>
    </body>
</html>
""".format(additional_meta=meta)

render(html)

```

## Verification

If you make outgoing requests from your project to other services, check if the headers `sentry-trace` and `baggage` are present in the request. If so distributed tracing is working.
