src/docs/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/events.mdx, before:

---
title: Event Properties
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn more about searchable event properties."
---

<Include name="searchable-properties/intro-for-events.mdx" />

## Searchable Properties

Below is a list of keys and tokens that can be used in the event search.

<DefinitionList>

### `apdex(threshold)`

Returns results with the [Apdex score](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex) that you entered. Values must be between `0` and `1`. Higher apdex values indicate higher user satisfaction.

- **Type:** number

### `app.in_foreground`

Indicates if the app is in the foreground or background. Values are `1/0` or `true/false`

- **Type:** boolean

### `avg(field)`

Returns results with matching averages for the field selected. The field can be either a number or a duration. Typically used with a comparison operator.

- **Type:** matches field

### `count_if(column,operator,value)`

Returns results with a matching count that satisfy the condition passed to the parameters of the function.

- **Type:** number

### `count_miserable(field,threshold)`

Returns results with a matching count of unique instances of the field that fall above the miserable threshold.

- **Type:** number

### `count_unique(field)`

Returns results with a matching count of the unique instances of the field entered.

- **Type:** number

### `count_web_vitals(vital,threshold)`

Returns results with a matching count that meet a web vitals quality threshold (`poor`, `meh`, `good`, or `any`).

- **Type:** number

### `count()`

Returns results with a matching count. (Same as `timesSeen` in issue search.) Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `culprit`

Deprecated

- **Type:** string

### `device.arch`

CPU architecture

- **Type:** string

### `device.battery_level`

If the device has a battery, this can be a floating point value defining the battery level (in the range 0-100).

- **Type:** string

### `device.brand`

Brand of the device

- **Type:** string

### `device.charging`

Whether the device was charging or not. Not a boolean.

- **Type:** string

### `device.class`

The estimated performance class of the client device, estimated `high`, `medium`, or `low`. For more details, see the [Device Classification](#device-classification) section below.

- **Type:** string

### `device.family`

Family of the device. Typically, the common part of a model name across generations. For example, iPhone, Samsung Galaxy.

- **Type:** string

### `device.locale`

Deprecated

- **Type:** string

### `device.name`

Details of the device

- **Type:** string

### `device.online`

Whether the device was online or not. A string that is either `True` or `False`.

- **Type:** string

### `device.orientation`

Describes the orientation of the device and can be either `portrait` or `landscape`.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_density`

Device screen density in pixels.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_dpi`

Number of dots per inch of the device screen.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_height_pixels`

Device screen height in pixels.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_width_pixels`

Device screen width in pixels.

- **Type:** string

### `device.simulator`

Indicates whether this device is a simulator or a real device. A string that is either `True` or `False`.

- **Type:** string

### `device.uuid`

Deprecated

- **Type:** uuid

### `dist`

Distinguishes build or deployment variants of the same release of an application. For example, the dist can be the build number of an XCode build or the version code of an Android build.

- **Type:** string

### `environment`

Refers to your code deployment naming convention. For example, _development_, _testing_, _staging_ and so on. [Learn more](/product/sentry-basics/environments/).In some pages of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you filter on environment using a dropdown.

- **Type:** string

### `epm()`

Returns results with a matching events-per-minute count. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `eps()`

Returns results with a matching events-per-second count. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `error.handled`

Indicates whether the user has handled the exception — for example, using try...catch. An error is considered handled if all stack traces handle the error. Values are `1/0` or `true/false`

- **Type:** boolean

### `error.main_thread`

Indicates if the error occurred on the main thread. Values are `1/0` or `true/false`

- **Type:** boolean

### `error.mechanism`

An object describing the mechanism that created this exception.

- **Type:** array

### `error.type`

The type of exception. For example, `ValueError`.

- **Type:** array

### `error.unhandled`

The inversion of `error.handled`.

- **Type:** boolean

### `error.value`

Original value of a field that causes or exhibits the error.

- **Type:** array

### `event.type`

Type of the event (transaction, error, default, csp, and so on). The transaction type is unavailable in **Issues**.

- **Type:** string

### `failure_count()`

Returns results with a matching count of events with a `transaction.status` value that's in the list of failing ones. Values can be: `ok`, `cancelled`, `unknown`. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `failure_rate()`

Returns results with a matching rate of failing transactions — that is, `failure_count()` divided by the `count()` (total count). Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `geo.city`

Full name of the city

- **Type:** string

### `geo.country_code`

ISO 3166-1 country code

- **Type:** string

### `geo.region`

Full name of the country

- **Type:** string

### `has`

Returns results with the defined tag or field, but not the value of that tag or field. For example, entering `has:user` would find events with the `user` tag.

- **Type:** error

### `http.method`

HTTP method of the [request](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/request/) that created the event.

- **Type:** string

### `http.referer`

Identifies the web page from which the resource was requested.

- **Type:** string

### `http.status_code`

HTTP status code, which indicates whether a response was successful. For example, `200` or `404`.

- **Type:** string

### `http.url`

Full URL of the request that caused the error, but without any parameters

- **Type:** string

### `id`

The event or replay id. In **Issues**, use only the ID value without the `id` key.

- **Type:** uuid

### `issue`

The short issue code, for example `SENTRY-ABC`.

- **Type:** string

### `last_seen()`

Datetime when the event was last seen. Equivalent to `max(timestamp)`. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** datetime

### `level`

Severity of the event (such as: fatal, error, warning). Always set to info for transactions.

- **Type:** string

### `location`

Location where the error happened.

- **Type:** string

### `max(numeric field)`

Returns results with a matching maximum value for the field entered.

- **Type:** matches field

### `measurements.app_start_cold`

A [cold start](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#app-start) refers to when the app launches for the first time after a reboot or update. The app is not in memory and no process exists.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.app_start_warm`

A [warm start](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#app-start) refers to when the app has already launched at least once and is partially in memory. For instance, the user backs out of your app, but then re-launches it. The process may have continued to run, but the app must recreate the activity from scratch.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.cls`

[Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#cumulative-layout-shift-cls) is the sum of individual layout shift scores for every unexpected element shift during the rendering process.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.fcp`

[First Contentful Paint (FCP)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#first-contentful-paint-fcp) measures the time for the first content to render in the viewport.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.fid`

[First Input Delay (FID)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#first-input-delay-fid) measures the response time when the user tries to interact with the viewport.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.fp`

[First Paint (FP)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#first-paint-fp) measures the amount of time the first pixel takes to appear in the viewport, rendering any visual change from what was previously displayed.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.frames_frozen`

[Slow and frozen frames](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#slow-and-frozen-frames) measure the responsiveness of your app.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_frozen_rate`

Returns results with a matching rate of frozen frames. That is, `measurements.frames_frozen` divided by the `measurements.frames_total`.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_slow`

[Slow and frozen frames](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#slow-and-frozen-frames) measure the responsiveness of your app.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_slow_rate`

Returns results with a matching rate of slow frames. That is, `measurements.frames_slow` divided by the `measurements.frames_total`.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_total`

Returns results with a matching total number of frames.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.lcp`

[Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#largest-contentful-paint-lcp) measures the render time for the largest content to appear in the viewport.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.stall_count`

A [stall](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) is when the JavaScript event loop takes longer than expected to complete. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.stall_longest_time`

The [longest stall time](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) is the time, in milliseconds, of the longest event loop stall. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.stall_percentage`

Stall percentage is equal to the `stall_total_time` divided by the `transaction.duration`. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.stall_total_time`

The [total stall time](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) is the total combined time, in milliseconds, of all stalls. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.ttfb`

[Time To First Byte (TTFB)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#time-to-first-byte-ttfb) measures the time that it takes for a user's browser to receive the first byte of page content.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.ttfb.requesttime`

The time between start of the request and start of the response (see [diagram](https://web.dev/ttfb/#what-is-ttfb)).

- **Type:** duration

### `message`

Returns errors with the matching message or transactions with matching transaction name. Also matches on any message containing the supplied value.Searching `message:undefined` will match an event with a message of `undefined is not an object`.Raw text searches (searches without the `message` key) are also checked against this field. For errors, the message can be a concatenatenation of elements, so searches might include unexpected results.

- **Type:** string

### `min(numeric field)`

Returns results with a matching minimum value for the field entered.

- **Type:** matches field

### `os.build`

The internal build revision of the operating system.

- **Type:** string

### `os.kernel_version`

The independent kernel version string. This is typically the entire output of the `uname` syscall.

- **Type:** string

### `percentile(field,level)`

Returns results with an approximate percentile of the field to the level. The level can be between `0` and `1`. For example, if you wanted to find the 50th percentile of transaction durations, you would enter `percentile(transaction.duration, 0.5)`.

- **Type:** number

### `platform`

Name of the platform. This is only a metrics property for [valid platforms](https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/9d0d2dc54233d46043a369e1dacf7db900953c14/relay-general/src/protocol/constants.rs#L1-L21), defaulting to `other`.

- **Type:** string

### `project`

The name of the project. In some pages of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you can also filter on project using a dropdown.

- **Type:** string

### `project.id`

The id of the project.

- **Type:** number

### `pXY(duration field)`

Returns results with an approximate percentile of the field. Replace "XY" with 50, 75, 95, 99, or 100. For example, if you wanted to find the 50th percentile of transaction durations, you would enter `p50(transaction.duration)`.

- **Type:** number

### `release`

A release is a version of your code deployed to an environment. You can create a token with an exact match of the version of a release, or `release:latest` to pick the most recent release.

- **Type:** string

### `release.build`

The number that identifies an iteration of your app. For example, `CFBundleVersion` on iOS or `versionCode` on Android. [Learn more](/product/releases/usage/sorting-filtering/).

- **Type:** number

### `release.package`

The unique identifier of the project/app. For example, `CFBundleIdentifier` on iOS or `packageName` on Android. [Learn more](/product/releases/usage/sorting-filtering/).

- **Type:** string

### `release.stage`

The usage your release is seeing relative to other releases. Values can be `adopted`, `low`, or `replaced`. [Learn more](/product/releases/health/#adoption-stages).

- **Type:** string

### `release.version`

A shorter version of the name; name without the package or short version of the hash. [Learn more](/product/releases/usage/sorting-filtering/).

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.name`

Name of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.version`

Version of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `spans.browser`

Cumulative browser time for a transaction, based on the span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `spans.db`

Cumulative db time for a transaction, based on span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `spans.http`

Cumulative http time for a transaction, based on span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `spans.resource`

Cumulative resource time for a transaction, based on span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `stack.abs_path`

The absolute path to the source file. In events, this is an array; in issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.colno`

Column number of the call, starting at 1.

- **Type:** array

### `stack.filename`

The path to the source file relative to the project root directory. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.function`

Name of the function being called. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.in_app`

Indicates whether a frame is related to the execution of the relevant code in the stack trace. For example, the frames that might power the framework’s web server of your app are probably not relevant. However, calls to the framework’s library once you start handling code likely are relevant. Values can be `1` (true) or `0` (false).

- **Type:** array

### `stack.lineno`

Line number of the call, starting at 1.

- **Type:** array

### `stack.module`

Platform-specific module path. For example, `sentry.interfaces.Stacktrace`. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.package`

The "package" the frame was contained in. Depending on the platform, this can be different things. For C#, it can be the name of the assembly. For native code, it can be the path of the dynamic library or something else. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `sum(numeric field)`

Returns results with a matching total value for the the field entered.

- **Type:** matches field

### `timestamp`

The finish timestamp of the transaction. Returns events with matching datetime.

- **Type:** datetime

### `timestamp.to_day`

Timestamp rounded down to the nearest day.

- **Type:** datetime

### `timestamp.to_hour`

Timestamp rounded down to the nearest hour.

- **Type:** datetime

### `title`

Title of the error or the transaction name.

- **Type:** string

### `trace`

A trace represents the record of the entire operation you want to measure or track — like page load, searched using the uuid generated by Sentry’s SDK.

- **Type:** uuid

### `trace.parent_span`

Span ID of the parent to the current transaction. This is null if the transaction is root.

- **Type:** uuid

### `trace.span`

Span ID of the root span of the root transaction in the event.

- **Type:** uuid

### `transaction`

For [transactions](/product/performance/transaction-summary/#what-is-a-transaction), the name of the transaction. For errors, the name of the associated transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.duration`

Duration, in milliseconds, of the transaction.

- **Type:** duration

### `transaction.op`

Short code identifying the [type of operation](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/performance/span-operations/) the span is measuring.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.status`

Describes the status of the span/transaction. Check out our [Transaction Payloads documentation](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/transaction/) for all possible statuses.

- **Type:** string

### `unreal.crash_type`

The [Unreal Crash Context Type](https://docs.unrealengine.com/4.27/en-US/API/Runtime/Core/GenericPlatform/ECrashContextType/)

- **Type:** string

### `user_misery(number)`

Returns transactions with the defined user misery value. [User Misery](/product/performance/metrics/#user-misery) is a user-weighted performance metric that counts the number of unique users who were frustrated; "frustration" is measured as a response time four times the satisfactory response time threshold (in milliseconds). It highlights transactions that have the highest impact on users.

- **Type:** number

### `user.display`

In order, the first available user field available: email, then username, ID, and then IP address.

- **Type:** string

### `user.email`

An alternative, or addition, to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can therefore display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

- **Type:** string

### `user.id`

Application-specific internal identifier for the user.

- **Type:** string

### `user.ip`

User's IP address. Sentry uses the IP address as a unique identifier for unauthenticated users.

- **Type:** string

### `user.username`

Username, which is typically a better label than the `user.id`.

- **Type:** string

</DefinitionList>

Commit message:

Add spans.ui to searchable properties
`spans.ui` is a supported, searchable property, so it should be listed in the docs.

Fixes #7406

src/docs/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/events.mdx, after:

---
title: Event Properties
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn more about searchable event properties."
---

<Include name="searchable-properties/intro-for-events.mdx" />

## Searchable Properties

Below is a list of keys and tokens that can be used in the event search.

<DefinitionList>

### `apdex(threshold)`

Returns results with the [Apdex score](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex) that you entered. Values must be between `0` and `1`. Higher apdex values indicate higher user satisfaction.

- **Type:** number

### `app.in_foreground`

Indicates if the app is in the foreground or background. Values are `1/0` or `true/false`

- **Type:** boolean

### `avg(field)`

Returns results with matching averages for the field selected. The field can be either a number or a duration. Typically used with a comparison operator.

- **Type:** matches field

### `count_if(column,operator,value)`

Returns results with a matching count that satisfy the condition passed to the parameters of the function.

- **Type:** number

### `count_miserable(field,threshold)`

Returns results with a matching count of unique instances of the field that fall above the miserable threshold.

- **Type:** number

### `count_unique(field)`

Returns results with a matching count of the unique instances of the field entered.

- **Type:** number

### `count_web_vitals(vital,threshold)`

Returns results with a matching count that meet a web vitals quality threshold (`poor`, `meh`, `good`, or `any`).

- **Type:** number

### `count()`

Returns results with a matching count. (Same as `timesSeen` in issue search.) Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `culprit`

Deprecated

- **Type:** string

### `device.arch`

CPU architecture

- **Type:** string

### `device.battery_level`

If the device has a battery, this can be a floating point value defining the battery level (in the range 0-100).

- **Type:** string

### `device.brand`

Brand of the device

- **Type:** string

### `device.charging`

Whether the device was charging or not. Not a boolean.

- **Type:** string

### `device.class`

The estimated performance class of the client device, estimated `high`, `medium`, or `low`. For more details, see the [Device Classification](#device-classification) section below.

- **Type:** string

### `device.family`

Family of the device. Typically, the common part of a model name across generations. For example, iPhone, Samsung Galaxy.

- **Type:** string

### `device.locale`

Deprecated

- **Type:** string

### `device.name`

Details of the device

- **Type:** string

### `device.online`

Whether the device was online or not. A string that is either `True` or `False`.

- **Type:** string

### `device.orientation`

Describes the orientation of the device and can be either `portrait` or `landscape`.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_density`

Device screen density in pixels.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_dpi`

Number of dots per inch of the device screen.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_height_pixels`

Device screen height in pixels.

- **Type:** string

### `device.screen_width_pixels`

Device screen width in pixels.

- **Type:** string

### `device.simulator`

Indicates whether this device is a simulator or a real device. A string that is either `True` or `False`.

- **Type:** string

### `device.uuid`

Deprecated

- **Type:** uuid

### `dist`

Distinguishes build or deployment variants of the same release of an application. For example, the dist can be the build number of an XCode build or the version code of an Android build.

- **Type:** string

### `environment`

Refers to your code deployment naming convention. For example, _development_, _testing_, _staging_ and so on. [Learn more](/product/sentry-basics/environments/).In some pages of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you filter on environment using a dropdown.

- **Type:** string

### `epm()`

Returns results with a matching events-per-minute count. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `eps()`

Returns results with a matching events-per-second count. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `error.handled`

Indicates whether the user has handled the exception — for example, using try...catch. An error is considered handled if all stack traces handle the error. Values are `1/0` or `true/false`

- **Type:** boolean

### `error.main_thread`

Indicates if the error occurred on the main thread. Values are `1/0` or `true/false`

- **Type:** boolean

### `error.mechanism`

An object describing the mechanism that created this exception.

- **Type:** array

### `error.type`

The type of exception. For example, `ValueError`.

- **Type:** array

### `error.unhandled`

The inversion of `error.handled`.

- **Type:** boolean

### `error.value`

Original value of a field that causes or exhibits the error.

- **Type:** array

### `event.type`

Type of the event (transaction, error, default, csp, and so on). The transaction type is unavailable in **Issues**.

- **Type:** string

### `failure_count()`

Returns results with a matching count of events with a `transaction.status` value that's in the list of failing ones. Values can be: `ok`, `cancelled`, `unknown`. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `failure_rate()`

Returns results with a matching rate of failing transactions — that is, `failure_count()` divided by the `count()` (total count). Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** number

### `geo.city`

Full name of the city

- **Type:** string

### `geo.country_code`

ISO 3166-1 country code

- **Type:** string

### `geo.region`

Full name of the country

- **Type:** string

### `has`

Returns results with the defined tag or field, but not the value of that tag or field. For example, entering `has:user` would find events with the `user` tag.

- **Type:** error

### `http.method`

HTTP method of the [request](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/request/) that created the event.

- **Type:** string

### `http.referer`

Identifies the web page from which the resource was requested.

- **Type:** string

### `http.status_code`

HTTP status code, which indicates whether a response was successful. For example, `200` or `404`.

- **Type:** string

### `http.url`

Full URL of the request that caused the error, but without any parameters

- **Type:** string

### `id`

The event or replay id. In **Issues**, use only the ID value without the `id` key.

- **Type:** uuid

### `issue`

The short issue code, for example `SENTRY-ABC`.

- **Type:** string

### `last_seen()`

Datetime when the event was last seen. Equivalent to `max(timestamp)`. Doesn't take a parameter.

- **Type:** datetime

### `level`

Severity of the event (such as: fatal, error, warning). Always set to info for transactions.

- **Type:** string

### `location`

Location where the error happened.

- **Type:** string

### `max(numeric field)`

Returns results with a matching maximum value for the field entered.

- **Type:** matches field

### `measurements.app_start_cold`

A [cold start](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#app-start) refers to when the app launches for the first time after a reboot or update. The app is not in memory and no process exists.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.app_start_warm`

A [warm start](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#app-start) refers to when the app has already launched at least once and is partially in memory. For instance, the user backs out of your app, but then re-launches it. The process may have continued to run, but the app must recreate the activity from scratch.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.cls`

[Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#cumulative-layout-shift-cls) is the sum of individual layout shift scores for every unexpected element shift during the rendering process.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.fcp`

[First Contentful Paint (FCP)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#first-contentful-paint-fcp) measures the time for the first content to render in the viewport.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.fid`

[First Input Delay (FID)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#first-input-delay-fid) measures the response time when the user tries to interact with the viewport.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.fp`

[First Paint (FP)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#first-paint-fp) measures the amount of time the first pixel takes to appear in the viewport, rendering any visual change from what was previously displayed.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.frames_frozen`

[Slow and frozen frames](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#slow-and-frozen-frames) measure the responsiveness of your app.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_frozen_rate`

Returns results with a matching rate of frozen frames. That is, `measurements.frames_frozen` divided by the `measurements.frames_total`.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_slow`

[Slow and frozen frames](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#slow-and-frozen-frames) measure the responsiveness of your app.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_slow_rate`

Returns results with a matching rate of slow frames. That is, `measurements.frames_slow` divided by the `measurements.frames_total`.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.frames_total`

Returns results with a matching total number of frames.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.lcp`

[Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#largest-contentful-paint-lcp) measures the render time for the largest content to appear in the viewport.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.stall_count`

A [stall](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) is when the JavaScript event loop takes longer than expected to complete. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.stall_longest_time`

The [longest stall time](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) is the time, in milliseconds, of the longest event loop stall. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.stall_percentage`

Stall percentage is equal to the `stall_total_time` divided by the `transaction.duration`. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** number

### `measurements.stall_total_time`

The [total stall time](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) is the total combined time, in milliseconds, of all stalls. Only applies to React Native.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.ttfb`

[Time To First Byte (TTFB)](/product/performance/web-vitals/#time-to-first-byte-ttfb) measures the time that it takes for a user's browser to receive the first byte of page content.

- **Type:** duration

### `measurements.ttfb.requesttime`

The time between start of the request and start of the response (see [diagram](https://web.dev/ttfb/#what-is-ttfb)).

- **Type:** duration

### `message`

Returns errors with the matching message or transactions with matching transaction name. Also matches on any message containing the supplied value.Searching `message:undefined` will match an event with a message of `undefined is not an object`.Raw text searches (searches without the `message` key) are also checked against this field. For errors, the message can be a concatenatenation of elements, so searches might include unexpected results.

- **Type:** string

### `min(numeric field)`

Returns results with a matching minimum value for the field entered.

- **Type:** matches field

### `os.build`

The internal build revision of the operating system.

- **Type:** string

### `os.kernel_version`

The independent kernel version string. This is typically the entire output of the `uname` syscall.

- **Type:** string

### `percentile(field,level)`

Returns results with an approximate percentile of the field to the level. The level can be between `0` and `1`. For example, if you wanted to find the 50th percentile of transaction durations, you would enter `percentile(transaction.duration, 0.5)`.

- **Type:** number

### `platform`

Name of the platform. This is only a metrics property for [valid platforms](https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/9d0d2dc54233d46043a369e1dacf7db900953c14/relay-general/src/protocol/constants.rs#L1-L21), defaulting to `other`.

- **Type:** string

### `project`

The name of the project. In some pages of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you can also filter on project using a dropdown.

- **Type:** string

### `project.id`

The id of the project.

- **Type:** number

### `pXY(duration field)`

Returns results with an approximate percentile of the field. Replace "XY" with 50, 75, 95, 99, or 100. For example, if you wanted to find the 50th percentile of transaction durations, you would enter `p50(transaction.duration)`.

- **Type:** number

### `release`

A release is a version of your code deployed to an environment. You can create a token with an exact match of the version of a release, or `release:latest` to pick the most recent release.

- **Type:** string

### `release.build`

The number that identifies an iteration of your app. For example, `CFBundleVersion` on iOS or `versionCode` on Android. [Learn more](/product/releases/usage/sorting-filtering/).

- **Type:** number

### `release.package`

The unique identifier of the project/app. For example, `CFBundleIdentifier` on iOS or `packageName` on Android. [Learn more](/product/releases/usage/sorting-filtering/).

- **Type:** string

### `release.stage`

The usage your release is seeing relative to other releases. Values can be `adopted`, `low`, or `replaced`. [Learn more](/product/releases/health/#adoption-stages).

- **Type:** string

### `release.version`

A shorter version of the name; name without the package or short version of the hash. [Learn more](/product/releases/usage/sorting-filtering/).

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.name`

Name of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.version`

Version of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `spans.browser`

Cumulative browser time for a transaction, based on the span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `spans.db`

Cumulative db time for a transaction, based on span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `spans.http`

Cumulative http time for a transaction, based on span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `spans.resource`

Cumulative resource time for a transaction, based on span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `spans.ui`

Cumulative ui time for a transaction, based on span operations.

- **Type:** duration

### `stack.abs_path`

The absolute path to the source file. In events, this is an array; in issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.colno`

Column number of the call, starting at 1.

- **Type:** array

### `stack.filename`

The path to the source file relative to the project root directory. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.function`

Name of the function being called. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.in_app`

Indicates whether a frame is related to the execution of the relevant code in the stack trace. For example, the frames that might power the framework’s web server of your app are probably not relevant. However, calls to the framework’s library once you start handling code likely are relevant. Values can be `1` (true) or `0` (false).

- **Type:** array

### `stack.lineno`

Line number of the call, starting at 1.

- **Type:** array

### `stack.module`

Platform-specific module path. For example, `sentry.interfaces.Stacktrace`. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `stack.package`

The "package" the frame was contained in. Depending on the platform, this can be different things. For C#, it can be the name of the assembly. For native code, it can be the path of the dynamic library or something else. In events, this is an array. In issues, this is a single value.

- **Type:** array, single value

### `sum(numeric field)`

Returns results with a matching total value for the the field entered.

- **Type:** matches field

### `timestamp`

The finish timestamp of the transaction. Returns events with matching datetime.

- **Type:** datetime

### `timestamp.to_day`

Timestamp rounded down to the nearest day.

- **Type:** datetime

### `timestamp.to_hour`

Timestamp rounded down to the nearest hour.

- **Type:** datetime

### `title`

Title of the error or the transaction name.

- **Type:** string

### `trace`

A trace represents the record of the entire operation you want to measure or track — like page load, searched using the uuid generated by Sentry’s SDK.

- **Type:** uuid

### `trace.parent_span`

Span ID of the parent to the current transaction. This is null if the transaction is root.

- **Type:** uuid

### `trace.span`

Span ID of the root span of the root transaction in the event.

- **Type:** uuid

### `transaction`

For [transactions](/product/performance/transaction-summary/#what-is-a-transaction), the name of the transaction. For errors, the name of the associated transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.duration`

Duration, in milliseconds, of the transaction.

- **Type:** duration

### `transaction.op`

Short code identifying the [type of operation](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/performance/span-operations/) the span is measuring.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.status`

Describes the status of the span/transaction. Check out our [Transaction Payloads documentation](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/transaction/) for all possible statuses.

- **Type:** string

### `unreal.crash_type`

The [Unreal Crash Context Type](https://docs.unrealengine.com/4.27/en-US/API/Runtime/Core/GenericPlatform/ECrashContextType/)

- **Type:** string

### `user_misery(number)`

Returns transactions with the defined user misery value. [User Misery](/product/performance/metrics/#user-misery) is a user-weighted performance metric that counts the number of unique users who were frustrated; "frustration" is measured as a response time four times the satisfactory response time threshold (in milliseconds). It highlights transactions that have the highest impact on users.

- **Type:** number

### `user.display`

In order, the first available user field available: email, then username, ID, and then IP address.

- **Type:** string

### `user.email`

An alternative, or addition, to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can therefore display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

- **Type:** string

### `user.id`

Application-specific internal identifier for the user.

- **Type:** string

### `user.ip`

User's IP address. Sentry uses the IP address as a unique identifier for unauthenticated users.

- **Type:** string

### `user.username`

Username, which is typically a better label than the `user.id`.

- **Type:** string

</DefinitionList>
