src/docs/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/session-replay.mdx, before:

---
title: Session Replay Properties
sidebar_order: 30
description: "Learn more about searchable session replay properties."
---

<Include name="searchable-properties/intro-for-session-replay.mdx" />

## Searchable Properties

Below is a list of keys and tokens that can be used in the session replay search.

<DefinitionList>

### `activity`

Replay activity is calculated based on the number of errors, the number of ui events, and the duration of the replay. It's represented as a number from `1` to `10`.

- **Type:** number

### `browser.name`

Name of the users' web browser. For example, `Chrome`, `Firefox`, or `Safari`

- **Type:** string

### `browser.version`

The version string of the browser.

- **Type:** string

### `click.alt`

The `alt` of an element that was clicked. For example, `"a good dog"` would match the element `<img src="/lassie.jpeg" alt="a good dog" />`

- **Type:** string

### `click.class`

The `class` of an element that was clicked. No leading `.` is necessary. For example, `btn-primary` would match the element `<a class="btn btn-primary">Save</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.id`

The `id` of an element that was clicked. No leading `#` is necessary. For example, `reset-password` would match the element `<a id="reset-password">Reset</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.label`

The `aria-label` of an element that was clicked. For example, `Expand` would match the element `<button aria-label="Expand"><img src="/icons/expand.png"/></button>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.role`

The `role` of an element that was clicked. For example, `button` would match both `<button>Save</button>` and `<a role="button">Submit</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.selector`

An element identified using a subset of CSS selector syntax. For example, `span#section-1` or `span.active` or `span[role=button]` or `span#section-1.active[role=button]` would all match the element `<span id="section-1" class="active" role="button"/>`. Note that, CSS combinators, pseudo selectors, and attr selectors other than `=` are not supported.

- **Type:** string

### `click.tag`

The tag name of an element that was clicked. For example, `input` would match `<input name="username" />`

- **Type:** string

### `click.testid`

The `data-testid` or `data-test-id` of an element that was clicked. For example, `user-name` would match the element `<a data-testid="user-name">User Name</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.textContent`

The immediate `textContent` of an element that was clicked. For example, `Save` would match `<button>Save</button>` but wouldn't match `<button><h1>Save</h1></button>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.title`

The `title` of an element that was clicked. For example, `Save this comment` would match the element `<a title="Save this comment" class="btn btn-primary">Save</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `count_dead_clicks`

The number of dead clicks within a replay.

- **Type:** number

### `count_errors`

The number of errors within a replay.

- **Type:** number

### `count_rage_clicks`

The number of rage clicks within a replay.

- **Type:** number

### `count_segments`

The number of segments within a replay. More segments represent more activity over time.

- **Type:** number

### `count_urls`

The number of URLs that the user visited during a replay recording.

- **Type:** number

### `device.brand`

Brand of the device

- **Type:** string

### `device.family`

Family of the device. Typically, the common part of a model name across generations. For example, iPhone, Samsung Galaxy.

- **Type:** string

### `device.model_id`

Internal hardware revision to identify the device exactly.

- **Type:** n/a

### `device.name`

Details of the device

- **Type:** string

### `dist`

Distinguishes build or deployment variants of the same release of an application. For example, the dist can be the build number of an XCode build or the version code of an Android build.

- **Type:** string

### `duration`

Duration of a replay in seconds.

- **Type:** number

### `error_id`

Error instances that have occurred within a replay.

- **Type:** array

### `id`

The event or replay id. In **Issues**, use only the ID value without the `id` key.

- **Type:** UUID

### `level`

Severity of the event (such as: fatal, error, warning). Always set to info for transactions.

- **Type:** string

### `os.name`

The name of the operating system. For example, `Windows`, `Mac OS X`, or `Linux`

- **Type:** string

### `os.version`

The version number of the operating system.

- **Type:** string

### `platform`

Name of the platform. This is only a metrics property for [valid platforms](https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/9d0d2dc54233d46043a369e1dacf7db900953c14/relay-general/src/protocol/constants.rs#L1-L21), defaulting to `other`.

- **Type:** string

### `release`

A release is a version of your code deployed to an environment. You can create a token with an exact match of the version of a release, or `release:latest` to pick the most recent release.

- **Type:** string

### `replayType`

The reason a replay was triggered. For example, `session` when `replaysSessionSampleRate` takes effect, or `error` when `replaysOnErrorSampleRate` is sampled instead of `session`.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.name`

Name of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.version`

Version of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `trace`

A trace represents the record of the entire operation you want to measure or track — like page load, searched using the UUID generated by Sentry’s SDK.

- **Type:** UUID

### `url`

A specific URL that the user visited during the replay.

- **Type:** string

### `user.email`

An alternative, or addition, to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can therefore display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

- **Type:** string

### `user.id`

Application-specific internal identifier for the user.

- **Type:** string

### `user.ip`

User's IP address. Sentry uses the IP address as a unique identifier for unauthenticated users.

- **Type:** string

### `user.username`

Username, which is typically a better label than the `user.id`.

- **Type:** string

</DefinitionList>

Commit message:

feat(replay): Include `project_id` in the list of searchable Session Replay fields (#7788)

src/docs/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/session-replay.mdx, after:

---
title: Session Replay Properties
sidebar_order: 30
description: "Learn more about searchable session replay properties."
---

<Include name="searchable-properties/intro-for-session-replay.mdx" />

## Searchable Properties

Below is a list of keys and tokens that can be used in the session replay search.

<DefinitionList>

### `activity`

Replay activity is calculated based on the number of errors, the number of ui events, and the duration of the replay. It's represented as a number from `1` to `10`.

- **Type:** number

### `browser.name`

Name of the users' web browser. For example, `Chrome`, `Firefox`, or `Safari`

- **Type:** string

### `browser.version`

The version string of the browser.

- **Type:** string

### `click.alt`

The `alt` of an element that was clicked. For example, `"a good dog"` would match the element `<img src="/lassie.jpeg" alt="a good dog" />`

- **Type:** string

### `click.class`

The `class` of an element that was clicked. No leading `.` is necessary. For example, `btn-primary` would match the element `<a class="btn btn-primary">Save</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.id`

The `id` of an element that was clicked. No leading `#` is necessary. For example, `reset-password` would match the element `<a id="reset-password">Reset</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.label`

The `aria-label` of an element that was clicked. For example, `Expand` would match the element `<button aria-label="Expand"><img src="/icons/expand.png"/></button>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.role`

The `role` of an element that was clicked. For example, `button` would match both `<button>Save</button>` and `<a role="button">Submit</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.selector`

An element identified using a subset of CSS selector syntax. For example, `span#section-1` or `span.active` or `span[role=button]` or `span#section-1.active[role=button]` would all match the element `<span id="section-1" class="active" role="button"/>`. Note that, CSS combinators, pseudo selectors, and attr selectors other than `=` are not supported.

- **Type:** string

### `click.tag`

The tag name of an element that was clicked. For example, `input` would match `<input name="username" />`

- **Type:** string

### `click.testid`

The `data-testid` or `data-test-id` of an element that was clicked. For example, `user-name` would match the element `<a data-testid="user-name">User Name</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.textContent`

The immediate `textContent` of an element that was clicked. For example, `Save` would match `<button>Save</button>` but wouldn't match `<button><h1>Save</h1></button>`

- **Type:** string

### `click.title`

The `title` of an element that was clicked. For example, `Save this comment` would match the element `<a title="Save this comment" class="btn btn-primary">Save</a>`

- **Type:** string

### `count_dead_clicks`

The number of dead clicks within a replay.

- **Type:** number

### `count_errors`

The number of errors within a replay.

- **Type:** number

### `count_rage_clicks`

The number of rage clicks within a replay.

- **Type:** number

### `count_segments`

The number of segments within a replay. More segments represent more activity over time.

- **Type:** number

### `count_urls`

The number of URLs that the user visited during a replay recording.

- **Type:** number

### `device.brand`

Brand of the device

- **Type:** string

### `device.family`

Family of the device. Typically, the common part of a model name across generations. For example, iPhone, Samsung Galaxy.

- **Type:** string

### `device.model_id`

Internal hardware revision to identify the device exactly.

- **Type:** n/a

### `device.name`

Details of the device

- **Type:** string

### `dist`

Distinguishes build or deployment variants of the same release of an application. For example, the dist can be the build number of an XCode build or the version code of an Android build.

- **Type:** string

### `duration`

Duration of a replay in seconds.

- **Type:** number

### `error_id`

Error instances that have occurred within a replay.

- **Type:** array

### `id`

The event or replay id. In **Issues**, use only the ID value without the `id` key.

- **Type:** UUID

### `level`

Severity of the event (such as: fatal, error, warning). Always set to info for transactions.

- **Type:** string

### `os.name`

The name of the operating system. For example, `Windows`, `Mac OS X`, or `Linux`

- **Type:** string

### `os.version`

The version number of the operating system.

- **Type:** string

### `platform`

Name of the platform. This is only a metrics property for [valid platforms](https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/9d0d2dc54233d46043a369e1dacf7db900953c14/relay-general/src/protocol/constants.rs#L1-L21), defaulting to `other`.

- **Type:** string

### `project_id`

The id of the project.

- **Type:** string

### `release`

A release is a version of your code deployed to an environment. You can create a token with an exact match of the version of a release, or `release:latest` to pick the most recent release.

- **Type:** string

### `replayType`

The reason a replay was triggered. For example, `session` when `replaysSessionSampleRate` takes effect, or `error` when `replaysOnErrorSampleRate` is sampled instead of `session`.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.name`

Name of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.version`

Version of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `trace`

A trace represents the record of the entire operation you want to measure or track — like page load, searched using the UUID generated by Sentry’s SDK.

- **Type:** UUID

### `url`

A specific URL that the user visited during the replay.

- **Type:** string

### `user.email`

An alternative, or addition, to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can therefore display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

- **Type:** string

### `user.id`

Application-specific internal identifier for the user.

- **Type:** string

### `user.ip`

User's IP address. Sentry uses the IP address as a unique identifier for unauthenticated users.

- **Type:** string

### `user.username`

Username, which is typically a better label than the `user.id`.

- **Type:** string

</DefinitionList>
