src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/upload/vite/javascript.mdx, before:

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using a Sentry SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

You can use the Sentry Vite plugin to automatically create releases and upload source maps to Sentry when bundling your app.

## Installation

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/vite-plugin --dev
```

## Configuration

Learn more about configuring the plugin in our [Sentry Vite Plugin documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sentry/vite-plugin).

Example:

```javascript {filename:vite.config.js}
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import { sentryVitePlugin } from "@sentry/vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    sourcemap: true, // Source map generation must be turned on
  },
  plugins: [
    // Put the Sentry vite plugin after all other plugins
    sentryVitePlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

      // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
      // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
});
```

<Note>

The Sentry Vite plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your implementation.

</Note>

Commit message:

Add sourcemaps wizard instructions to uploading source maps docs

src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/upload/vite/javascript.mdx, after:

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using a Sentry SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

You can use the Sentry Vite plugin to automatically create releases and upload source maps to Sentry when bundling your app.

## Automatic Setup

The easiest way to configure uploading source maps with Vite is by using the Sentry Wizard:

<Include name="sourcemaps-wizard-instructions.mdx"/>

If you want to configure source maps upload with Vite manually, follow the steps below.

## Manual Setup

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/vite-plugin --dev
```

### Configuration

Learn more about configuring the plugin in our [Sentry Vite Plugin documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sentry/vite-plugin).

Example:

```javascript {filename:vite.config.js}
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import { sentryVitePlugin } from "@sentry/vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    sourcemap: true, // Source map generation must be turned on
  },
  plugins: [
    // Put the Sentry vite plugin after all other plugins
    sentryVitePlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

      // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
      // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
});
```

<Note>

The Sentry Vite plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your configuration.

</Note>
