src/wizard/javascript/profiling-onboarding/react/1.install.md, before:

---
name: React (JS Self Profiling)
doc_link: https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/react/profiling/
support_level: beta
type: framework
---

## Install

Because our browser profiling integration is built on top of the profiler exposed by the [JS Self-Profiling API](https://wicg.github.io/js-self-profiling/), it's in beta and will likely only move out once the official spec progresses and gains adoption. As with any beta package, there are risks involved in using it - see platform [status](https://chromestatus.com/feature/5170190448852992).

Please note, that since profiling API is currently only implemented in Chromium based browsers, the profiles collected will inherently be biased towards that demographic. This is something you'll need to consider if you're basing your decisions on the data collected. We hope that as the API gains adoption, other browsers will implement it as well. If you find browser profiling feature helpful and would like to see it gain further adoption, please consider supporting the spec at the official [WICG repository](https://github.com/WICG/js-self-profiling).

Install our JavaScript browser SDK using either `yarn` or `npm`, the minimum version that supports profiling is **7.60.0**.

```bash
# Using yarn
yarn add @sentry/react

# Using npm
npm install --save @sentry/react
```

Commit message:

fix(profiling): add beta note and decrease titles

src/wizard/javascript/profiling-onboarding/react/1.install.md, after:

---
name: React (JS Self Profiling)
doc_link: https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/react/profiling/
support_level: beta
type: framework
---


<Note>

Browser Profiling is currently in beta. Beta features are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.

</Note>

#### Install

Because our browser profiling integration is built on top of the profiler exposed by the [JS Self-Profiling API](https://wicg.github.io/js-self-profiling/), it's in beta and will likely only move out once the official spec progresses and gains adoption. As with any beta package, there are risks involved in using it - see platform [status](https://chromestatus.com/feature/5170190448852992).

Please note, that since profiling API is currently only implemented in Chromium based browsers, the profiles collected will inherently be biased towards that demographic. This is something you'll need to consider if you're basing your decisions on the data collected. We hope that as the API gains adoption, other browsers will implement it as well. If you find browser profiling feature helpful and would like to see it gain further adoption, please consider supporting the spec at the official [WICG repository](https://github.com/WICG/js-self-profiling).

Install our JavaScript browser SDK using either `yarn` or `npm`, the minimum version that supports profiling is **7.60.0**.

```bash
# Using yarn
yarn add @sentry/react

# Using npm
npm install --save @sentry/react
```
