src/platforms/python/guides/chalice/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Chalice
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/chalice/
description: "Learn about using Sentry with Chalice."
---

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `chalice` extra:

```bash
pip install --upgrade sentry-sdk[chalice]
```

## Configure

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from chalice import Chalice

from sentry_sdk.integrations.chalice import ChaliceIntegration


sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        ChaliceIntegration(),
    ],

    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    # We recommend adjusting this value in production,
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
)

app = Chalice(app_name="appname")

```

## Testing

You can create a route that triggers an error for validate your Sentry installation like this:

```python
@app.route("/boom")
def boom():
    raise Exception("boom goes the dynamite!")
```

when you enter the route will throw an error that will be captured by Sentry.

for everything else (like events)

```python
@app.schedule(Rate(1, unit=Rate.MINUTES))
def every_hour(event):
    raise Exception("only chalice event!")
```

## Behavior

- Request data is attached to all events: HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set send_default_pii to True.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.

Commit message:

Python: Getting Started chalice (#7828)
* Python: Getting Started chalice

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platforms/python/guides/chalice/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Chalice
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/chalice/
description: "Learn about using Sentry with Chalice."
---

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `chalice` extra:

```bash
pip install --upgrade sentry-sdk[chalice]
```

## Configure

<SignInNote />

```python
from chalice import Chalice

import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.chalice import ChaliceIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
    integrations=[
        ChaliceIntegration(),
    ],
)

app = Chalice(app_name="appname")

```

## Verify

```python
from chalice import Chalice

sentry_sdk.init(...)  # as above

app = Chalice(app_name="helloworld")

@app.schedule(Rate(1, unit=Rate.MINUTES))
def every_minute(event):
    1/0  # raises an error

@app.route("/")
def index():
    1/0  # raises an error
    return {"hello": "world"}
```

When you enter the `"/"` route or the scheduled task is run, an error event will be sent to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).

## Behavior

- Request data is attached to all events: HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set send_default_pii to True.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.

## Supported Versions

- Chalice: 1.16.0+
- Python: 3.6+
