src/platforms/javascript/guides/electron/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Electron
sdk: sentry.javascript.electron
categories:
  - desktop
redirect_from:
  - /clients/electron/
  - /platforms/javascript/electron/
  - /platforms/electron/
  - /platforms/javascript/electron/sourcemaps/
description: "Learn how to use Sentry with Electron."
---

`@sentry/electron` is the official Sentry SDK for Electron applications. It can capture JavaScript exceptions in the `main` and `renderer` processes, as well as collect native crash reports (Minidumps).

## Install

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-install" />

## Configure

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-config" />

Once configured, all unhandled exceptions and native crashes are automatically captured by Sentry.

**Important:** Note your DSN. The _DSN_ (Data Source Name) tells the SDK where to send events. If you forget it, view _Settings -> Projects -> Client Keys (DSN)_ in the Sentry web UI.

## Wizard

Our Sentry Wizard can help with the setup process. Make sure you have installed the `@sentry/wizard` npm package globally, then run:

```shell
npm install -g @sentry/wizard
sentry-wizard --integration electron
```

This will guide you through the installation and configuration process and suggest useful tools for development. If you instead prefer to setup manually, keep reading.

## Configuring the Client

Start by configuring the SDK as described above. This will enable the [Electron CrashReporter](https://electronjs.org/docs/api/crash-reporter) for native app crashes and capture any uncaught JavaScript exceptions using the JavaScript SDKs under the hood. Be sure to call this function as early as possible in the `main` process and all `renderer` processes to also catch errors during startup.

If you are using preload scripts, have `contextIsolation` enabled and want to capture errors from the isolated preload context, you should call `init` early in that context too.

### App `userData` Directory

If you change the `userData` directory used by your app, ensure this change is made before you configure the SDK as this path is used to cache scope and events between application restarts.

<SignInNote />

```javascript
import { app } from "electron";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron";

app.setPath("userData", "~/.config/my-app");
Sentry.init({ dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___" });
```

## Bundler Configuration

The SDK attempts to ensure JavaScript bundlers pick up the correct entry point for the Electron process type, but this is not foolproof. If the incorrect entry point is selected, your bundler may throw an error or an error will be thrown at runtime. If this occurs you can use relative imports to ensure that the correct code is bundled for the process.

In the main process:

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron/main";
```

In the renderer processes:

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron/renderer";
```

## Framework-Specific SDKs

If you're using a framework-specific Sentry SDK in the Electron renderers, you
can pass that `init` function as the second parameter and the two SDKs functionalities will be combined:

```javascript
import { init } from "@sentry/electron/renderer";
import { init as reactInit } from "@sentry/react";

init(
  {
    /* config */
  },
  reactInit
);
```

## Offline Support

The default transport automatically handles offline events caching. Following, are a
number of options that allow you to customize queueing behavior:

<SignInNote />

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron/main";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  transportOptions: {
    // The maximum number of days to keep an event in the queue.
    maxQueueAgeDays: 30,
    // The maximum number of events to keep in the queue.
    maxQueueCount: 30,
    // Called every time the number of requests in the queue changes.
    queuedLengthChanged: (length) => {},
    // Called before attempting to send an event to Sentry. Used to override queuing behavior.
    //
    // Return 'send' to attempt to send the event.
    // Return 'queue' to queue and persist the event for sending later.
    // Return 'drop' to drop the event.
    beforeSend: (request) => (isOnline() ? "send" : "queue"),
  },
});
```

## Inter-Process Communication

To give detailed information for all events including native crashes, the SDK merges context, scope and breadcrumbs from all processes in the Electron `main` process.

By default, the SDK attempts to establish communication from `renderer` to `main` via Electron IPC API's and if that fails, falls back to using a custom HTTP protocol. You can change this default via the `ipcMode` option which can be one of `Classic`, `Protocol` or `Both`.

<SignInNote />

```javascript
const { init, IPCMode } = require("@sentry/electron");

init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  debug: true,
  ipcMode: IPCMode.Protocol,
});
```

### Preload Injection

The SDK attempts to inject a preload script via [`session.setPreloads(preloads)`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/session#sessetpreloadspreloads) and by default only does this for the `defaultSession`. If you are using other sessions, you can pass custom sessions via the `getSessions` option in the `main` process:

<SignInNote />

```javascript
import { session } from "electron";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  getSessions: () => [
    session.defaultSession,
    session.fromPartition("persist:my-session"),
  ],
});
```

If your app bundles the `main` process JavaScript, the SDK cannot automatically inject preload scripts because the script will be missing from the packaged app. In this case, the SDK will send events and scope updates via a custom HTTP protocol and `window.fetch`.

### Manual Preload

If you would like to manually bundle and configure the preload script, you should import the SDK preload code into your own preload script:

```javascript
import "@sentry/electron/preload";
```

This script exposes IPC to the isolated renderer via Electrons `contextBridge` API.

Check out the [example apps](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-electron/tree/master/examples) for how to do this.

## Debug Information

To get symbolicated stack traces for native crashes, you should enable fetching
debug symbols from the Electron symbol server. Go to **Project Settings > Debug
Files** and add Electron to the list of built-in repositories.

If your app uses a custom Electron fork, contains modules with native extensions or spawns subprocesses, you have to upload those symbols manually using Sentry CLI. For more information, see [_Native Usage_](/platforms/electron/).

<Alert level="warning" title="Known Issue">

It is currently not possible to send events from native code (such as a C++ extension). However, crashes will still be reported to Sentry if they happen in a process where the SDK has been configured. Also, crash reports from sub processes will not be reported automatically on all platforms. This feature will be added in a future SDK update.

</Alert>

## Dealing with Minified Source Code

The Electron SDK supports [Source Maps](https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/developertools/sourcemaps/). If you upload source maps in addition to your minified files that data becomes available in Sentry. For more information see [_Source Maps_](/platforms/electron/).

## Native

Sentry can process Minidumps created when the Electron process or one of its renderers crashes. To do so, the SDK needs to upload those files once the application restarts (or immediately for renderer crashes). All event meta data including user information and breadcrumbs are included in these uploads.

Due to restrictions of macOS app sandboxing, native crashes cannot be collected in Mac App Store builds. In this case, native crash handling will be disabled.

<Alert level="warning" title="A Word on Data Privacy">

Minidumps are memory dumps of the process at the moment it crashes. As such, they might contain sensitive information on the target system, such as environment variables, local path names or maybe even in-memory representations of input fields including passwords. **Sentry does not store these memory dumps**. Once processed, they are removed immediately and all sensitive information is stripped from the resulting issues.

</Alert>

### Providing Debug Information

To allow Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with
symbolicated stack traces, you need to upload _Debug Information Files_
(sometimes also referred to as _Debug Symbols_ or just _Symbols_).

First, make sure that the _Electron Symbol Server_ is enabled for your project.
Go to _Project Settings > Debug Files_ and choose `Electron` from the list of
_Builtin Repositories_. You can add more symbol servers for the platforms you
are deploying to, depending on your needs.

If your application contains custom native extensions or you wish to symbolicate
crashes from a spawned child process, upload their debug information manually
during your build or release process. See [_Debug Information Files_](/workflow/debug-files/) for a detailed description of how to
set up Sentry for native development. Additionally, see [_Uploading Debug
Information_](/product/cli/dif/) for the upload process.

### Child Processes

The SDK relies on the [Electron CrashReporter](https://electronjs.org/docs/api/crash-reporter) to generate the crash dumps. To receive crash reports for child processes, you need to make sure the crash reporter is activated by either the SDK or manually (see [below](#electron-native-manual)).

An exception to this is _macOS_, where the crash reporter only needs to be started in the `main` process and watches all its child processes. The SDK already takes care of this difference, so there is no need to manually disable `enableNative`.

For custom child processes, especially ones not written in JavaScript, you need to integrate a library that can generate Minidumps. These are most notably [Crashpad](https://chromium.googlesource.com/crashpad/crashpad/) and [Breakpad](https://chromium.googlesource.com/breakpad/breakpad). Please refer to their respective documentation on how to build and integrate them. Configure them with the following upload URL:

```text
___MINIDUMP_URL___
```

It currently not possible create breadcrumbs or other event meta data from native code. This has to happen in JavaScript. Support for this is planned in future releases.

### Manual Crash Reporting {#electron-native-manual}

You can also capture native crashes by starting the [Electron CrashReporter](https://electronjs.org/docs/api/crash-reporter) manually. Sentry is able to provide symbolicated stack traces and show system information, but no Electron-specific metadata, breadcrumbs or context information will be present. This is useful in cases where you cannot use the full Electron SDK:

```javascript
const { crashReporter } = require("electron");
crashReporter.start({
  companyName: "YourCompany",
  productName: "YourApp",
  ignoreSystemCrashHandler: true,
  submitURL: "___MINIDUMP_URL___",
});
```

## Source Maps

To find out why Sentry needs your source maps and how to provide them visit: [Source Maps](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/)

Commit message:

fix(electron): Clarify offline support is for all processes

src/platforms/javascript/guides/electron/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Electron
sdk: sentry.javascript.electron
categories:
  - desktop
redirect_from:
  - /clients/electron/
  - /platforms/javascript/electron/
  - /platforms/electron/
  - /platforms/javascript/electron/sourcemaps/
description: "Learn how to use Sentry with Electron."
---

`@sentry/electron` is the official Sentry SDK for Electron applications. It can capture JavaScript exceptions in the `main` and `renderer` processes, as well as collect native crash reports (Minidumps).

## Install

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-install" />

## Configure

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-config" />

Once configured, all unhandled exceptions and native crashes are automatically captured by Sentry.

**Important:** Note your DSN. The _DSN_ (Data Source Name) tells the SDK where to send events. If you forget it, view _Settings -> Projects -> Client Keys (DSN)_ in the Sentry web UI.

## Wizard

Our Sentry Wizard can help with the setup process. Make sure you have installed the `@sentry/wizard` npm package globally, then run:

```shell
npm install -g @sentry/wizard
sentry-wizard --integration electron
```

This will guide you through the installation and configuration process and suggest useful tools for development. If you instead prefer to setup manually, keep reading.

## Configuring the Client

Start by configuring the SDK as described above. This will enable the [Electron CrashReporter](https://electronjs.org/docs/api/crash-reporter) for native app crashes and capture any uncaught JavaScript exceptions using the JavaScript SDKs under the hood. Be sure to call this function as early as possible in the `main` process and all `renderer` processes to also catch errors during startup.

If you are using preload scripts, have `contextIsolation` enabled and want to capture errors from the isolated preload context, you should call `init` early in that context too.

### App `userData` Directory

If you change the `userData` directory used by your app, ensure this change is made before you configure the SDK as this path is used to cache scope and events between application restarts.

<SignInNote />

```javascript
import { app } from "electron";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron";

app.setPath("userData", "~/.config/my-app");
Sentry.init({ dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___" });
```

## Bundler Configuration

The SDK attempts to ensure JavaScript bundlers pick up the correct entry point for the Electron process type, but this is not foolproof. If the incorrect entry point is selected, your bundler may throw an error or an error will be thrown at runtime. If this occurs you can use relative imports to ensure that the correct code is bundled for the process.

In the main process:

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron/main";
```

In the renderer processes:

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron/renderer";
```

## Framework-Specific SDKs

If you're using a framework-specific Sentry SDK in the Electron renderers, you
can pass that `init` function as the second parameter and the two SDKs functionalities will be combined:

```javascript
import { init } from "@sentry/electron/renderer";
import { init as reactInit } from "@sentry/react";

init(
  {
    /* config */
  },
  reactInit
);
```

## Offline Support

The default transport automatically handles offline events caching from both the
main and renderer processes. Following, are a number of options that allow you
to customize queueing behavior:

<SignInNote />

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron/main";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  transportOptions: {
    // The maximum number of days to keep an event in the queue.
    maxQueueAgeDays: 30,
    // The maximum number of events to keep in the queue.
    maxQueueCount: 30,
    // Called every time the number of requests in the queue changes.
    queuedLengthChanged: (length) => {},
    // Called before attempting to send an event to Sentry. Used to override queuing behavior.
    //
    // Return 'send' to attempt to send the event.
    // Return 'queue' to queue and persist the event for sending later.
    // Return 'drop' to drop the event.
    beforeSend: (request) => (isOnline() ? "send" : "queue"),
  },
});
```

## Inter-Process Communication

To give detailed information for all events including native crashes, the SDK merges context, scope and breadcrumbs from all processes in the Electron `main` process.

By default, the SDK attempts to establish communication from `renderer` to `main` via Electron IPC API's and if that fails, falls back to using a custom HTTP protocol. You can change this default via the `ipcMode` option which can be one of `Classic`, `Protocol` or `Both`.

<SignInNote />

```javascript
const { init, IPCMode } = require("@sentry/electron");

init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  debug: true,
  ipcMode: IPCMode.Protocol,
});
```

### Preload Injection

The SDK attempts to inject a preload script via [`session.setPreloads(preloads)`](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/session#sessetpreloadspreloads) and by default only does this for the `defaultSession`. If you are using other sessions, you can pass custom sessions via the `getSessions` option in the `main` process:

<SignInNote />

```javascript
import { session } from "electron";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/electron";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  getSessions: () => [
    session.defaultSession,
    session.fromPartition("persist:my-session"),
  ],
});
```

If your app bundles the `main` process JavaScript, the SDK cannot automatically inject preload scripts because the script will be missing from the packaged app. In this case, the SDK will send events and scope updates via a custom HTTP protocol and `window.fetch`.

### Manual Preload

If you would like to manually bundle and configure the preload script, you should import the SDK preload code into your own preload script:

```javascript
import "@sentry/electron/preload";
```

This script exposes IPC to the isolated renderer via Electrons `contextBridge` API.

Check out the [example apps](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-electron/tree/master/examples) for how to do this.

## Debug Information

To get symbolicated stack traces for native crashes, you should enable fetching
debug symbols from the Electron symbol server. Go to **Project Settings > Debug
Files** and add Electron to the list of built-in repositories.

If your app uses a custom Electron fork, contains modules with native extensions or spawns subprocesses, you have to upload those symbols manually using Sentry CLI. For more information, see [_Native Usage_](/platforms/electron/).

<Alert level="warning" title="Known Issue">

It is currently not possible to send events from native code (such as a C++ extension). However, crashes will still be reported to Sentry if they happen in a process where the SDK has been configured. Also, crash reports from sub processes will not be reported automatically on all platforms. This feature will be added in a future SDK update.

</Alert>

## Dealing with Minified Source Code

The Electron SDK supports [Source Maps](https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/developertools/sourcemaps/). If you upload source maps in addition to your minified files that data becomes available in Sentry. For more information see [_Source Maps_](/platforms/electron/).

## Native

Sentry can process Minidumps created when the Electron process or one of its renderers crashes. To do so, the SDK needs to upload those files once the application restarts (or immediately for renderer crashes). All event meta data including user information and breadcrumbs are included in these uploads.

Due to restrictions of macOS app sandboxing, native crashes cannot be collected in Mac App Store builds. In this case, native crash handling will be disabled.

<Alert level="warning" title="A Word on Data Privacy">

Minidumps are memory dumps of the process at the moment it crashes. As such, they might contain sensitive information on the target system, such as environment variables, local path names or maybe even in-memory representations of input fields including passwords. **Sentry does not store these memory dumps**. Once processed, they are removed immediately and all sensitive information is stripped from the resulting issues.

</Alert>

### Providing Debug Information

To allow Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with
symbolicated stack traces, you need to upload _Debug Information Files_
(sometimes also referred to as _Debug Symbols_ or just _Symbols_).

First, make sure that the _Electron Symbol Server_ is enabled for your project.
Go to _Project Settings > Debug Files_ and choose `Electron` from the list of
_Builtin Repositories_. You can add more symbol servers for the platforms you
are deploying to, depending on your needs.

If your application contains custom native extensions or you wish to symbolicate
crashes from a spawned child process, upload their debug information manually
during your build or release process. See [_Debug Information Files_](/workflow/debug-files/) for a detailed description of how to
set up Sentry for native development. Additionally, see [_Uploading Debug
Information_](/product/cli/dif/) for the upload process.

### Child Processes

The SDK relies on the [Electron CrashReporter](https://electronjs.org/docs/api/crash-reporter) to generate the crash dumps. To receive crash reports for child processes, you need to make sure the crash reporter is activated by either the SDK or manually (see [below](#electron-native-manual)).

An exception to this is _macOS_, where the crash reporter only needs to be started in the `main` process and watches all its child processes. The SDK already takes care of this difference, so there is no need to manually disable `enableNative`.

For custom child processes, especially ones not written in JavaScript, you need to integrate a library that can generate Minidumps. These are most notably [Crashpad](https://chromium.googlesource.com/crashpad/crashpad/) and [Breakpad](https://chromium.googlesource.com/breakpad/breakpad). Please refer to their respective documentation on how to build and integrate them. Configure them with the following upload URL:

```text
___MINIDUMP_URL___
```

It currently not possible create breadcrumbs or other event meta data from native code. This has to happen in JavaScript. Support for this is planned in future releases.

### Manual Crash Reporting {#electron-native-manual}

You can also capture native crashes by starting the [Electron CrashReporter](https://electronjs.org/docs/api/crash-reporter) manually. Sentry is able to provide symbolicated stack traces and show system information, but no Electron-specific metadata, breadcrumbs or context information will be present. This is useful in cases where you cannot use the full Electron SDK:

```javascript
const { crashReporter } = require("electron");
crashReporter.start({
  companyName: "YourCompany",
  productName: "YourApp",
  ignoreSystemCrashHandler: true,
  submitURL: "___MINIDUMP_URL___",
});
```

## Source Maps

To find out why Sentry needs your source maps and how to provide them visit: [Source Maps](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/)
