src/platforms/apple/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve common issues with the Cocoa SDK."
sidebar_order: 2000
---

## Wrong App Start Data

Starting with iOS 15, the system might [pre-warm](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/app_and_environment/responding_to_the_launch_of_your_app/about_the_app_launch_sequence#3894431) your app by creating the process before the user opens it. In such cases, we can't reliably measure the app start, so we drop it as of [sentry-cocoa 7.18.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.18.0). We are working on a fix for this. Follow the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/issues/1897) for more details.

## High Slow and Frozen Frames Rate

We recommend updating to at least [7.18.1](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.18.1), or else the SDK might report too high a percentage of slow frames.

## Falsely Reported Out Of Memory Crashes

We recommend updating to at least [7.11.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.11.0), because before this version the SDK might falsely report out-of-memory crashes when an app hangs, and the user kills it manually.

## Crashes with HTTP Auto Performance Instrumentation

We recommend updating to at least [7.5.3](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.5.3), because the HTTP instrumentation can lead to crashes. Alternatively, you can also <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#http-instrumentation">disable the feature</PlatformLink>.

## Duplicated Crashes Event With Screenshots

Since the introduction of screenshots for crashes in version [7.20.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.20.0), projects with 'enableCaptureScreenshot' enabled received duplicated crash reports. Therefore, we recommend updating to at least [7.25.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.25.0) to fix this problem.

## My first view controller has no performance trace

If your project still initializes a UIWindow during `application(_:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:)` and you plan to use an automatic UIViewController performance tracker, make sure to initialize your window, set the root view controller, and then initialize SentrySDK.

## I use Tuist and the project crashes when I update Sentry

If you use Tuist to manage your SPM dependencies, add the following configuration to your `Dependencies.swift` under `targetSettings`

```Swift
"Sentry": ["USE_HEADERMAP": "YES"]
```

## SentryFileManager: Failed to write data to path

Sentry writes and reads files at a specific path in the app cache directory. This path is created during the SDK initialization.
If you see a log message that looks like this: `[SentryFileManager:439] Failed to write data to path` it means that the cache path doesn't exist anymore.
Check your app for any procedure that cleans the cache of your app during runtime, and avoid deleting the `io.sentry` directory.

## My app is not symbolicated and I use App Store Connect

If you use our App Store Connect integration for uploading the debug symbols to Sentry and your stacktrace is not symbolicated, try a different way of uploading the debug symbols by following the [documentation](/platforms/apple/dsym/).

There is a problem with uploading the debug symbols with our App Store Connect integration. We are currently investigating this issue.

Commit message:

fix(apple): Remove dSYMs with AppStore Connect
Uploading dSYMs with AppStore Connect is no longer working. Remove the
documentation to not confuse users.

src/platforms/apple/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve common issues with the Cocoa SDK."
sidebar_order: 2000
---

## Wrong App Start Data

Starting with iOS 15, the system might [pre-warm](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/app_and_environment/responding_to_the_launch_of_your_app/about_the_app_launch_sequence#3894431) your app by creating the process before the user opens it. In such cases, we can't reliably measure the app start, so we drop it as of [sentry-cocoa 7.18.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.18.0). We are working on a fix for this. Follow the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/issues/1897) for more details.

## High Slow and Frozen Frames Rate

We recommend updating to at least [7.18.1](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.18.1), or else the SDK might report too high a percentage of slow frames.

## Falsely Reported Out Of Memory Crashes

We recommend updating to at least [7.11.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.11.0), because before this version the SDK might falsely report out-of-memory crashes when an app hangs, and the user kills it manually.

## Crashes with HTTP Auto Performance Instrumentation

We recommend updating to at least [7.5.3](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.5.3), because the HTTP instrumentation can lead to crashes. Alternatively, you can also <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#http-instrumentation">disable the feature</PlatformLink>.

## Duplicated Crashes Event With Screenshots

Since the introduction of screenshots for crashes in version [7.20.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.20.0), projects with 'enableCaptureScreenshot' enabled received duplicated crash reports. Therefore, we recommend updating to at least [7.25.0](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/releases/tag/7.25.0) to fix this problem.

## My first view controller has no performance trace

If your project still initializes a UIWindow during `application(_:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:)` and you plan to use an automatic UIViewController performance tracker, make sure to initialize your window, set the root view controller, and then initialize SentrySDK.

## I use Tuist and the project crashes when I update Sentry

If you use Tuist to manage your SPM dependencies, add the following configuration to your `Dependencies.swift` under `targetSettings`

```Swift
"Sentry": ["USE_HEADERMAP": "YES"]
```

## SentryFileManager: Failed to write data to path

Sentry writes and reads files at a specific path in the app cache directory. This path is created during the SDK initialization.
If you see a log message that looks like this: `[SentryFileManager:439] Failed to write data to path` it means that the cache path doesn't exist anymore.
Check your app for any procedure that cleans the cache of your app during runtime, and avoid deleting the `io.sentry` directory.

## My app is not symbolicated and I use App Store Connect

Since Xcode 14 App Store Connect doesn't make debug symbols available for download anymore, see [Xcode Release Notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode-release-notes/xcode-14-release-notes#Deprecations). Please use a different way of uploading the debug symbols by following the [documentation](/platforms/apple/dsym/).
