src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/asyncio.mdx, before:

---
title: asyncio
description: "Learn about the asyncio integration and how it adds support for applications the asyncio module."
sidebar_order: 20
---

The `AsyncioIntegration` integrates with applications doing concurrent code execution using Pythons [asyncio](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html) module.

## Install

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk'
```

## Configure

Add `AsyncioIntegration()` to your list of `integrations` and be sure to call `sentry_sdk.init()` at the beginning of your async loop:

<SignInNote />

```python {filename:main.py}
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.asyncio import AsyncioIntegration


async def main():
    sentry_sdk.init(
        dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
        integrations=[
            AsyncioIntegration(),
        ],
    )

    # your code goes here.


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## Behavior

- All unhandled exceptions in tasks will be captured
- Every executed Task will be instrumented and show up in the performance waterfall on Sentry.io

## Supported Versions

- Python: 3.7+

Commit message:

Python: Getting Started asyncio (#7803)
---------

Co-authored-by: getsantry[bot] <66042841+getsantry[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/asyncio.mdx, after:

---
title: asyncio
description: "Learn about the asyncio integration and how it adds support for applications the asyncio module."
sidebar_order: 20
---

The `AsyncioIntegration` integrates with applications doing concurrent code execution using Pythons [asyncio](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html) module.

## Install

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk'
```

## Configure

Add `AsyncioIntegration()` to your list of `integrations` and be sure to call `sentry_sdk.init()` at the beginning of your async loop:

<SignInNote />

```python {filename:main.py}
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.asyncio import AsyncioIntegration

async def main():
    sentry_sdk.init(
        dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
        # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
        # of transactions for performance monitoring.
        traces_sample_rate=1.0,
        integrations=[
            AsyncioIntegration(),
        ],
    )

    # your code goes here.
    ...

asyncio.run(main())
```

## Verify

Trigger an error in your code and see it show up in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).

```python {filename:main.py}
import asyncio

import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.asyncio import AsyncioIntegration

async def my_task():
    1/0  # raises an error!

async def main():
    sentry_sdk.init(...)  # same as above
    asyncio.create_task(my_task())

asyncio.run(main())
```

## Behavior

- All unhandled exceptions in tasks will be captured
- Every executed Task will be instrumented and show up in the performance waterfall on Sentry.io

## Supported Versions

- Python: 3.7+
