src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/clickhouse-driver.mdx, before:

---
title: clickhouse-driver
description: "Learn about importing the clickhouse-driver integration and how it captures queries from clickhouse-driver as breadcrumbs."
sidebar_order: 27
---

The clickhouse-driver integration captures queries from
[clickhouse-driver](https://github.com/mymarilyn/clickhouse-driver) as breadcrumbs and spans.
The integration is available for clickhouse-driver 0.2.0 or later.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` with the `clickhouse-driver` extra.

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[clickhouse-driver]'
```

## Configure

Add `ClickhouseDriverIntegration()` to your `integrations` list:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.clickhouse_driver import ClickhouseDriverIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        ClickhouseDriverIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

By default, the parameters of the query are not retrieved. To see the query parameters in Sentry, enable `send_default_pii`. See <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options/#send-default-pii">Basic Options</PlatformLink> for details.

## Supported Versions

- clickhouse-driver >= 0.2.0
- python >= 3.8

Commit message:

Python: Getting Started Clickhouse (#7805)
---------

Co-authored-by: getsantry[bot] <66042841+getsantry[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/clickhouse-driver.mdx, after:

---
title: clickhouse-driver
description: "Learn about importing the clickhouse-driver integration and how it captures queries from clickhouse-driver as breadcrumbs."
sidebar_order: 27
---

The clickhouse-driver integration captures queries from
[clickhouse-driver](https://github.com/mymarilyn/clickhouse-driver) as breadcrumbs and spans.
The integration is available for clickhouse-driver 0.2.0 or later.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` with the `clickhouse-driver` extra.

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[clickhouse-driver]'
```

## Configure

Add `ClickhouseDriverIntegration()` to your `integrations` list:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.clickhouse_driver import ClickhouseDriverIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
    integrations=[
        ClickhouseDriverIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

By default, the parameters of the query are not retrieved. To see the query parameters in Sentry, enable `send_default_pii`. See <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options/#send-default-pii">Basic Options</PlatformLink> for details.

## Verify

```python
from clickhouse_driver import Client

def main():
    sentry_init(...)  # same as above

    with sentry_sdk.start_transaction(name="testing_sentry"):
        client = Client(host=DATABASE_HOST)
        client.execute("DROP TABLE IF EXISTS sentry_test")
        client.execute("CREATE TABLE sentry_test (x Int32) ENGINE = Memory")
        client.execute("INSERT INTO sentry_test (x) VALUES", [{"x": 100}])

main()
```

This will create a transaction called `testing_sentry` in the Performance section of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), and create spans for the database operations.

It takes a couple of moments for the data to appear in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).

## Supported Versions

- clickhouse-driver >= 0.2.0
- python >= 3.8
