src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/default-integrations.mdx, before:

---
title: Default Integrations
description: "Learn about default integrations, what they do, and how they hook into the standard library or the interpreter itself."
sidebar_order: 1
---

<!-- NOTE: Due to being in common, redirects are in vercel.json -->

System integrations are integrations enabled by default that integrate into the
standard library or the interpreter itself. Sentry documents them so you can see
what they do and that they can be disabled if they cause issues. To disable
all system integrations, set `default_integrations=False` when calling `init()`.

## Atexit

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.atexit.AtexitIntegration`_

This integrates with the interpreter's `atexit` system to automatically flush
events from the background queue on interpreter shutdown. Typically, one does
not need to disable this. Even if the functionality is not wanted, it's easier to disable it by setting the `shutdown_timeout` to `0` in the options passed to
`init()`.

## Excepthook

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.excepthook.ExcepthookIntegration`_

This integration registers with the interpreter's except hook system. Through this,
any exception that is unhandled will be reported to Sentry automatically. Note that exceptions
raised in interactive interpreter sessions will not be reported.

### Options

You can pass the following keyword arguments to `ExcepthookIntegration()`:

- `always_run`:

  ```bash
  $ python
  >>> import sentry_sdk
  >>> from sentry_sdk.integrations.excepthook import ExcepthookIntegration
  >>> sentry_sdk.init(..., integrations=[ExcepthookIntegration(always_run=True)])
  >>> raise Exception("I will become an error")
  ```

  By default, the SDK does not capture errors occurring in the REPL (`always_run=False`).

## Deduplication

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.dedupe.DedupeIntegration`_

This integration deduplicates certain events. The Sentry Python SDK enables it by default, and it should not be disabled except in rare circumstances. Disabling this integration, for instance, will cause duplicate error logging in the Flask framework.

## Stdlib

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.stdlib.StdlibIntegration`_

The stdlib integration instruments certain modules in the standard library to emit breadcrumbs. The Sentry Python SDK enables this by default, and it rarely makes sense to disable.

- Any outgoing HTTP request done with `httplib` will result in a <PlatformLink to="/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/">breadcrumb</PlatformLink> being logged. `urllib3` and `requests` use `httplib` under the hood, so HTTP requests from those packages should be covered as well.

- Subprocesses spawned with the `subprocess` module will result in a <PlatformLink to="/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/">breadcrumb</PlatformLink> being logged.

## Modules

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.modules.ModulesIntegration`_

Sends a list of installed Python packages along with each event.

## Argv

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.argv.ArgvIntegration`_

Adds `sys.argv` as an `extra` attribute to each event.

## Logging

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.logging.LoggingIntegration`_

See [_Logging_](/platforms/python/guides/logging/)

## Threading

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.threading.ThreadingIntegration`_

Reports crashing threads.

It also accepts an option `propagate_hub` that changes the way clients are transferred between threads, and transfers scope data (such as tags) from the parent thread to the child thread. This option is currently disabled (`False`) by default, but this will likely change in the future.

Next are two code samples that demonstrate what boilerplate you would have to write without `propagate_hub`. This boilerplate is still sometimes necessary if you want to propagate context data into a thread pool, for example.

### Manual propagation

```python
import threading
from sentry_sdk import Hub, init, set_tag, capture_message

init(...)

set_tag("mydata", 42)

def run(thread_hub):
    with thread_hub:
        capture_message("hi")  # event will have `mydata` tag attached

# We take all context data (the tags map and even the entire client
# configuration), and pass it as explicit variable
# into the thread.
thread_hub = Hub(Hub.current)

tr = threading.Thread(target=run, args=[thread_hub])
tr.start()
tr.join()
```

### Example B: Automatic propagation

```python
import threading

from sentry_sdk import Hub, init, set_tag, capture_message
from sentry_sdk.integrations.threading import ThreadingIntegration

init(
    ...,
    integrations=[
        ThreadingIntegration(propagate_hub=True),
    ],
)

set_tag("mydata", 42)

def run():
    capture_message("hi")  # event will have `mydata` tag attached

# The threading integration hooks into the stdlib to automatically pass
# existing context data when a `Thread` is instantiated.
tr = threading.Thread(target=run)
tr.start()
tr.join()
```

Commit message:

Add `capture_graphql_errors` option to Python HTTP client integrations (#7563)
---------

Co-authored-by: getsantry[bot] <66042841+getsantry[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Liza Mock <liza.mock@sentry.io>

src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/default-integrations.mdx, after:

---
title: Default Integrations
description: "Learn about default integrations, what they do, and how they hook into the standard library or the interpreter itself."
sidebar_order: 1
---

<!-- NOTE: Due to being in common, redirects are in vercel.json -->

System integrations are integrations enabled by default that integrate into the
standard library or the interpreter itself. Sentry documents them so you can see
what they do and that they can be disabled if they cause issues. To disable
all system integrations, set `default_integrations=False` when calling `init()`.

## Atexit

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.atexit.AtexitIntegration`_

This integrates with the interpreter's `atexit` system to automatically flush
events from the background queue on interpreter shutdown. Typically, one does
not need to disable this. Even if the functionality is not wanted, it's easier to disable it by setting the `shutdown_timeout` to `0` in the options passed to
`init()`.

## Excepthook

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.excepthook.ExcepthookIntegration`_

This integration registers with the interpreter's except hook system. Through this,
any exception that is unhandled will be reported to Sentry automatically. Note that exceptions
raised in interactive interpreter sessions will not be reported.

### Options

You can pass the following keyword arguments to `ExcepthookIntegration()`:

- `always_run`:

  ```bash
  $ python
  >>> import sentry_sdk
  >>> from sentry_sdk.integrations.excepthook import ExcepthookIntegration
  >>> sentry_sdk.init(..., integrations=[ExcepthookIntegration(always_run=True)])
  >>> raise Exception("I will become an error")
  ```

  By default, the SDK does not capture errors occurring in the REPL (`always_run=False`).

## Deduplication

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.dedupe.DedupeIntegration`_

This integration deduplicates certain events. The Sentry Python SDK enables it by default, and it should not be disabled except in rare circumstances. Disabling this integration, for instance, will cause duplicate error logging in the Flask framework.

## Stdlib

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.stdlib.StdlibIntegration`_

The stdlib integration instruments certain modules in the standard library to emit breadcrumbs. The Sentry Python SDK enables this by default, and it rarely makes sense to disable.

- Any outgoing HTTP request done with `httplib` will result in a <PlatformLink to="/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/">breadcrumb</PlatformLink> being logged. `urllib3` and `requests` use `httplib` under the hood, so HTTP requests from those packages should be covered as well.

- Subprocesses spawned with the `subprocess` module will result in a <PlatformLink to="/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/">breadcrumb</PlatformLink> being logged.

### Options

You can pass the following keyword arguments to `StdlibIntegration()`:

- `capture_graphql_errors`:

  If enabled, the SDK will automatically create an error event whenever the response
  to a request to an endpoint called `/graphql` contains an `errors` array. The
  error event will have both the request and the response content if the SDK has
  been set up with `send_default_pii=True` (which is the default). If you don't want to capture client GraphQL errors, set `send_default_pii=False`.

## Modules

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.modules.ModulesIntegration`_

Sends a list of installed Python packages along with each event.

## Argv

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.argv.ArgvIntegration`_

Adds `sys.argv` as an `extra` attribute to each event.

## Logging

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.logging.LoggingIntegration`_

See [_Logging_](/platforms/python/guides/logging/)

## Threading

_Import name: `sentry_sdk.integrations.threading.ThreadingIntegration`_

Reports crashing threads.

It also accepts an option `propagate_hub` that changes the way clients are transferred between threads, and transfers scope data (such as tags) from the parent thread to the child thread. This option is currently disabled (`False`) by default, but this will likely change in the future.

Next are two code samples that demonstrate what boilerplate you would have to write without `propagate_hub`. This boilerplate is still sometimes necessary if you want to propagate context data into a thread pool, for example.

### Manual propagation

```python
import threading
from sentry_sdk import Hub, init, set_tag, capture_message

init(...)

set_tag("mydata", 42)

def run(thread_hub):
    with thread_hub:
        capture_message("hi")  # event will have `mydata` tag attached

# We take all context data (the tags map and even the entire client
# configuration), and pass it as explicit variable
# into the thread.
thread_hub = Hub(Hub.current)

tr = threading.Thread(target=run, args=[thread_hub])
tr.start()
tr.join()
```

### Example B: Automatic propagation

```python
import threading

from sentry_sdk import Hub, init, set_tag, capture_message
from sentry_sdk.integrations.threading import ThreadingIntegration

init(
    ...,
    integrations=[
        ThreadingIntegration(propagate_hub=True),
    ],
)

set_tag("mydata", 42)

def run():
    capture_message("hi")  # event will have `mydata` tag attached

# The threading integration hooks into the stdlib to automatically pass
# existing context data when a `Thread` is instantiated.
tr = threading.Thread(target=run)
tr.start()
tr.join()
```
