src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/gnu_backtrace.mdx, before:

---
title: GNU Backtrace
description: "Learn about the GNU backtrace integration and how to add it to your integrations list."
sidebar_order: 50
---

<!-- NOTE: Due to being in common, redirects are in vercel.json -->

The GNU backtrace integration parses native stack trace produced by [`backtrace_symbols`](https://linux.die.net/man/3/backtrace_symbols) from error messages and concatenates them with the Python traceback.

It is currently tested to work with server exceptions raised by [`clickhouse-driver`](https://github.com/mymarilyn/clickhouse-driver).

<Note>

**This integration is experimental.** It may be removed in minor versions. When enabling this integration, expect to see new event groups due to new stack trace frames.

</Note>

## Install

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk'
```

## Configure

Add `GnuBacktraceIntegration()` to your `integrations` list:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.gnu_backtrace import GnuBacktraceIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        GnuBacktraceIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

Commit message:

Python: Getting Started gnu backtrace

src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/gnu_backtrace.mdx, after:

---
title: GNU Backtrace
description: "Learn about the GNU backtrace integration and how to add it to your integrations list."
sidebar_order: 50
---

The GNU backtrace integration parses native stack trace produced by [`backtrace_symbols`](https://linux.die.net/man/3/backtrace_symbols) from error messages and concatenates them with the Python traceback.

It is currently tested to work with server exceptions raised by [`clickhouse-driver`](https://github.com/mymarilyn/clickhouse-driver).


## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI.

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk'
```

## Configure

Add `GnuBacktraceIntegration()` to your `integrations` list:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.gnu_backtrace import GnuBacktraceIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        GnuBacktraceIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

## Verify

It is currently tested to work with server exceptions raised by [`clickhouse-driver`](https://github.com/mymarilyn/clickhouse-driver).

Otherwise you need to have a library that emits exceptions that have backtrace compatible values for the GNU backtrace integration to parse it.
