src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/loguru.mdx, before:

---
title: Loguru
description: Learn about using Sentry with Loguru.
sidebar_order: 80
---

The [Loguru](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru#readme) integration lets you capture log messages and send them to Sentry.

The [`logging`](/platforms/python/guides/logging) integration provides most of the Loguru functionality and most examples on that page work with Loguru.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `loguru` extra.

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[loguru]'
```

## Configure

Add `LoguruIntegration()` to your integrations list:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.loguru import LoguruIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        LoguruIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

## Behavior

By default, logs with a level of `INFO` or higher will be added as breadcrumbs to Sentry events. Sentry issue will be created for logs with a level of `ERROR` or higher:

```python
from loguru import logger

logger.debug("I am ignored")
logger.info("I am a breadcrumb")
logger.error("I am an event", extra=dict(bar=43))
logger.exception("An exception happened")
```

- An error event with the message `"I am an event"` will be created.
- `"I am a breadcrumb"` will be attached as a breadcrumb to that event.
- `bar` will end up in the `extra` attributes of that event.
- `"An exception happened"` will send the current exception from `sys.exc_info()` with the stack trace to Sentry. If there's no exception, the current stack will be attached.
- The debug message `"I am ignored"` will not be captured by Sentry. To capture it, set `level` to `DEBUG` or lower in `LoguruIntegration`.

### Ignoring a logger

Loggers can be noisy. You can ignore a logger by calling `ignore_logger`.

Since most of the logic is proxied to `logging` integration, we use it instead of the Loguru integration:

```python
# Import form `logging` integration
from sentry_sdk.integrations.logging import ignore_logger

ignore_logger("a.spammy.logger")
```

In `a.spammy.logger` module:

```python
from loguru import logger
logger.error("hi")  # No error is sent to Sentry
```

This will work with `logging`'s logger too

```python
logger = logging.getLogger("a.spammy.logger")
logger.error("hi") # Again, no error sent to Sentry
```

You can also use `before-send` and `before-breadcrumb` to ignore only certain messages. See <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/">Filtering Events</PlatformLink> for more information.

## Options

You can pass the following keyword arguments to `LoguruIntegration()`:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from loguru import logger

from sentry_sdk.integrations.loguru import LoguruIntegration
from sentry_sdk.integrations.loguru import LoggingLevels

sentry_loguru = LoguruIntegration(
    level=LoggingLevels.INFO.value,        # Capture info and above as breadcrumbs
    event_level=LoggingLevels.ERROR.value  # Send errors as events
)

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        sentry_loguru,
    ],
)
```

- `level`

  The Sentry Python SDK will record log records with a level higher than or equal to `level` as breadcrumbs. Inversely, the SDK ignores any log record with a level lower than this one. If set to `None`, the SDK won't send log records as breadcrumbs.

  Default: `INFO`

- `event_level`

  The Sentry Python SDK will report log records with a level higher than or equal to `event_level` as events. If set to `None`, the SDK won't send log records as events.

  Default: `ERROR`

## Supported Versions

- Loguru: 0.5+
- Python: 3.5+

Commit message:

Python: Getting Started loguru (#7808)
---------

Co-authored-by: getsantry[bot] <66042841+getsantry[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/loguru.mdx, after:

---
title: Loguru
description: Learn about using Sentry with Loguru.
sidebar_order: 80
---

The [Loguru](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru#readme) integration lets you capture log messages and send them to Sentry.

The [`logging`](/platforms/python/guides/logging) integration provides most of the Loguru functionality and most examples on that page work with Loguru.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `loguru` extra.

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[loguru]'
```

## Configure

Add `LoguruIntegration()` to your integrations list:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.loguru import LoguruIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        LoguruIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

## Verify

```python
from loguru import logger

def main():
    sentry_sdk.init(...)  # same as above
    logger.debug("I am ignored")
    logger.error("There was an error!")

main()
```

This will capture the `error` level log entry and send it as an error to Sentry.

## Behavior

By default, logs with a level of `INFO` or higher will be added as breadcrumbs to Sentry events. Sentry issue will be created for logs with a level of `ERROR` or higher:

```python
from loguru import logger

logger.debug("I am ignored")
logger.info("I am a breadcrumb")
logger.error("I am an event", extra=dict(bar=43))
logger.exception("An exception happened")
```

- An error event with the message `"I am an event"` will be created.
- `"I am a breadcrumb"` will be attached as a breadcrumb to that event.
- `bar` will end up in the `extra` attributes of that event.
- `"An exception happened"` will send the current exception from `sys.exc_info()` with the stack trace to Sentry. If there's no exception, the current stack will be attached.
- The debug message `"I am ignored"` will not be captured by Sentry. To capture it, set `level` to `DEBUG` or lower in `LoguruIntegration`.

### Ignoring a logger

Loggers can be noisy. You can ignore a logger by calling `ignore_logger`.

Since most of the logic is proxied to `logging` integration, we use it instead of the Loguru integration:

```python
# Import form `logging` integration
from sentry_sdk.integrations.logging import ignore_logger

ignore_logger("a.spammy.logger")
```

In `a.spammy.logger` module:

```python
from loguru import logger
logger.error("hi")  # No error is sent to Sentry
```

This will work with `logging`'s logger too

```python
logger = logging.getLogger("a.spammy.logger")
logger.error("hi") # Again, no error sent to Sentry
```

You can also use `before-send` and `before-breadcrumb` to ignore only certain messages. See <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/">Filtering Events</PlatformLink> for more information.

## Options

You can pass the following keyword arguments to `LoguruIntegration()`:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from loguru import logger

from sentry_sdk.integrations.loguru import LoguruIntegration
from sentry_sdk.integrations.loguru import LoggingLevels

sentry_loguru = LoguruIntegration(
    level=LoggingLevels.INFO.value,        # Capture info and above as breadcrumbs
    event_level=LoggingLevels.ERROR.value  # Send errors as events
)

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        sentry_loguru,
    ],
)
```

- `level`

  The Sentry Python SDK will record log records with a level higher than or equal to `level` as breadcrumbs. Inversely, the SDK ignores any log record with a level lower than this one. If set to `None`, the SDK won't send log records as breadcrumbs.

  Default: `INFO`

- `event_level`

  The Sentry Python SDK will report log records with a level higher than or equal to `event_level` as events. If set to `None`, the SDK won't send log records as events.

  Default: `ERROR`

## Supported Versions

- Loguru: 0.5+
- Python: 3.5+
