src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/pure_eval.mdx, before:

---
title: Enhanced Locals
description: "Learn about `pure_eval` and how to add it to your integrations list."
sidebar_order: 40
---

<!-- NOTE: Due to being in common, redirects are in vercel.json -->

This integration uses [`pure_eval`](https://github.com/alexmojaki/pure_eval) to safely evaluate additional expressions in the source code and display their values alongside other local variables.

<Note>

**This integration is experimental.** It may be removed in minor versions.

</Note>

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `pure_eval` extra or `pip install pure_eval executing asttokens`.

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[pure_eval]'
```

## Configure

Add `PureEvalIntegration()` to your `integrations` list:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.pure_eval import PureEvalIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dns="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        PureEvalIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

## Supported Versions

- Python: 3.5+

Commit message:

Python: Getting Started enhanced locals (#7862)
* Python: Getting Started enhanced locals

* style(lint): Auto commit lint changes

---------

Co-authored-by: getsantry[bot] <66042841+getsantry[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/pure_eval.mdx, after:

---
title: Enhanced Locals
description: "Learn about `pure_eval` and how to add it to your integrations list."
sidebar_order: 40
---

This integration uses [`pure_eval`](https://github.com/alexmojaki/pure_eval) to safely evaluate additional expressions in the source code and display their values alongside other local variables.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `pure_eval` extra or `pip install pure_eval executing asttokens`.

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[pure_eval]'
```

## Configure

Add `PureEvalIntegration()` to your `integrations` list:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.pure_eval import PureEvalIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dns="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        PureEvalIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

## Verify

```python
from types import SimpleNamespace

def main():
    sentry_sdk.init(...)  # same as above

    namespace = SimpleNamespace()
    namespace.d = {1: 2}
    print(namespace.d[1] / 0)

main()
```

When you run this example script an error will be sent to Sentry. Through the `PureEvalIntegration` the stack trace of the error will include the values of `namespace.d` and `namespace.d[1]` which would not be shown without `PureEvalIntegration`.

## Supported Versions

- Python: 3.5+
