src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/pymongo.mdx, before:

---
title: PyMongo
description: "Learn about the PyMongo integration and how it adds support for connections to MongoDB databases."
sidebar_order: 100
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/guides/pymongo/
---

The PyMongo integration adds support for [PyMongo](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/pymongo/), the official MongoDB driver.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `pymongo` extra:

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[pymongo]'
```

## Configure

To configure the SDK, initialize it before creating any of PyMongo's MongoClient instances:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.pymongo import PyMongoIntegration


sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[
        PyMongoIntegration(),
    ],

    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    # We recommend adjusting this value in production,
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
)
```

<Note>

In the future, we will make this auto-enabling, so you won't need to add the `PyMongoIntegration` to your
`sentry_sdk.init()` call. Instead, the Sentry SDK will detect the presence of PyMongo and will set up the integration
automatically.

</Note>

## Behavior

The following information about your MongoDB queries will be available to you on Sentry.io:

- Performance traces for all MongoDB queries
- Breadcrumbs for all MongoDB queries
- Personal identifiable information (PII) will be stripped from all MongoDB queries if `send_default_pii` is disabled in the SDK. (This was tested for PyMongo 4.2 and below, but "should" also be future proof)

![MongoDB query details are shown as a waterfall diagram](mongodb-query-performance-details.png)

### Other MongoDB libraries

PyMongo is an official synchronous driver for MongoDB. It means that many other Python libraries interacting with
MongoDB use it under the hood, like, for example `mongoengine` (always) or `umongo` (if selected from multiple available
drivers). Official async MongoDB driver called `Motor` uses PyMongo under the hood as well.
Queries generated by those libraries will also be monitored.

If you use a different driver (for example, `TxMongo`), this integration won't work.

### Mongomock

While `mongomock` can be used to replace `PyMongo` in tests, it doesn't implement all features available in the official
driver. This integration will not generate any breadcrumbs or spans from `mongomock`'s clients.

## Supported Versions

- PyMongo: 3.1+, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2
- Python: 2.7 (PyMongo 3.1+), Python 3.6+ (PyMongo 4.0), Python 3.7+ (PyMongo 4.1+)

Commit message:

Python: Getting Started pymongo (#7810)
---------

Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platforms/python/common/configuration/integrations/pymongo.mdx, after:

---
title: PyMongo
description: "Learn about the PyMongo integration and how it adds support for connections to MongoDB databases."
sidebar_order: 100
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/guides/pymongo/
---

The PyMongo integration adds support for [PyMongo](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/pymongo/), the official MongoDB driver.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `pymongo` extra:

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[pymongo]'
```

## Configure

To configure the SDK, initialize it before creating any of PyMongo's MongoClient instances:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.pymongo import PyMongoIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
    integrations=[
        PyMongoIntegration(),
    ],
)
```

<Note>

In the future, we will make this auto-enabling, so you won't need to add the `PyMongoIntegration` to your
`sentry_sdk.init()` call. Instead, the Sentry SDK will detect the presence of PyMongo and will set up the integration
automatically.

</Note>

## Verify

```python
import pymongo

def main():
    sentry_sdk.init(...)  # same as above
    client = pymongo.MongoClient(DATABASE_HOST, DATABASE_PORT)

    db = client["sentry_test_db"]
    collection = db["sentry_test"]

    with sentry_sdk.start_transaction(name="testing_sentry"):
        collection.insert_one({"test": "sentry"})
        collection.find_one({"test": "sentry"})

main()
```

This will create a transaction called `testing_sentry` in the Performance section of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), and create spans for the database operations.

It takes a couple of moments for the data to appear in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).

## Behavior

The following information about your MongoDB queries will be available to you on Sentry.io:

- Performance traces for all MongoDB queries
- Breadcrumbs for all MongoDB queries
- Personal identifiable information (PII) will be stripped from all MongoDB queries if `send_default_pii` is disabled in the SDK. (This was tested for PyMongo 4.2 and below, but "should" also be future proof)

![MongoDB query details are shown as a waterfall diagram](mongodb-query-performance-details.png)

### Other MongoDB libraries

PyMongo is an official synchronous driver for MongoDB. It means that many other Python libraries interacting with
MongoDB use it under the hood, like, for example `mongoengine` (always) or `umongo` (if selected from multiple available
drivers). Official async MongoDB driver called `Motor` uses PyMongo under the hood as well.
Queries generated by those libraries will also be monitored.

If you use a different driver (for example, `TxMongo`), this integration won't work.

### Mongomock

While `mongomock` can be used to replace `PyMongo` in tests, it doesn't implement all features available in the official
driver. This integration will not generate any breadcrumbs or spans from `mongomock`'s clients.

## Supported Versions

- PyMongo: 3.1+, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2
- Python: 2.7 (PyMongo 3.1+), Python 3.6+ (PyMongo 4.0), Python 3.7+ (PyMongo 4.1+)
