src/platform-includes/getting-started-config/javascript.remix.mdx, before:

To use this SDK, initialize Sentry in your Remix entry points for both the client and server.

Create two files in the root directory of your project, `entry.client.tsx` and `entry.server.tsx` (if they don't exist yet). In these files, add your initialization code for the client-side SDK and server-side SDK, respectively.

The two configuration types are mostly the same, except that some configuration features, like Session Replay, only work in `entry.client.tsx`.

```typescript {tabTitle:Client} {filename: entry.client.tsx}
import { useLocation, useMatches } from "@remix-run/react";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/remix";
import { useEffect } from "react";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.BrowserTracing({
      routingInstrumentation: Sentry.remixRouterInstrumentation(
        useEffect,
        useLocation,
        useMatches
      ),
    }),
    // Replay is only available in the client
    new Sentry.Replay(),
  ],

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,

  // Capture Replay for 10% of all sessions,
  // plus for 100% of sessions with an error
  replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1,
  replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

```typescript {tabTitle:Server} {filename: entry.server.tsx}
import { useLocation, useMatches } from "@remix-run/react";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/remix";
import { useEffect } from "react";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___DSN___",

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

Initialize Sentry in your entry point for the server to capture exceptions and get performance metrics for your [`action`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#action) and [`loader`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#loader) functions. You can also initialize Sentry's database integrations, such as Prisma, to get spans for your database calls.

```typescript {filename: entry.server.tsx}
import { prisma } from "~/db.server";

import * as Sentry from "@sentry/remix";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___DSN___",
  tracesSampleRate: 1,
  integrations: [new Sentry.Integrations.Prisma({ client: prisma })],
  // ...
});
```

<Note>

Learn more about <Link to="/platforms/node/performance/database/opt-in/#prisma-orm-integration">Sentry's Prisma integration </Link>.

</Note>

If you use a custom Express server in your Remix application, you should wrap your [`createRequestHandler` function](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/other-api/adapter#createrequesthandler) manually with `wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler`. This is not required if you use the built-in Remix App Server.

<Alert level="info">

`wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler` is available starting with version 7.11.0.

</Alert>

```typescript {filename: server/index.ts}
import { wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler } from "@sentry/remix";
import { createRequestHandler } from "@remix-run/express";

// ...

const createSentryRequestHandler =
  wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler(createRequestHandler);

// Use createSentryRequestHandler like you would with createRequestHandler
app.all("*", createSentryRequestHandler(/* ... */));
```

Also, wrap your Remix root with `withSentry` to catch React component errors and to get parameterized router transactions.

```typescript {filename: root.tsx}
import {
  Links,
  LiveReload,
  Meta,
  Outlet,
  Scripts,
  ScrollRestoration,
} from "@remix-run/react";

import { withSentry } from "@sentry/remix";

function App() {
  return (
    <html>
      <head>
        <Meta />
        <Links />
      </head>
      <body>
        <Outlet />
        <ScrollRestoration />
        <Scripts />
        <LiveReload />
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}

export default withSentry(App);
```

You can disable or configure `ErrorBoundary` using a second parameter to `withSentry`.

```ts
withSentry(App, {
  wrapWithErrorBoundary: false,
});

// or

withSentry(App, {
  errorBoundaryOptions: {
    fallback: <p>An error has occurred</p>,
  },
});
```

Once you've done this set up, the SDK will automatically capture unhandled errors and promise rejections, and monitor performance in the client. You can also [manually capture errors](/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/usage).

<Note>

You can refer to [Remix Docs](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/guides/envvars#browser-environment-variables) to learn how to use your Sentry DSN from environment variables.

</Note>

Commit message:

ref(js): Add `tracePropagationTargets` to SDK init code snippets (#7013)
Updates all JS SDK Sentry.init snippets that include `BrowserTracing` to also include the `tracePropagationTargets` options. The purpose of this change is to point out to users that `tracePropagationTargets` is necessary to control to which urls of outgoing requests, our distributed tracing headers should be added.

src/platform-includes/getting-started-config/javascript.remix.mdx, after:

To use this SDK, initialize Sentry in your Remix entry points for both the client and server.

Create two files in the root directory of your project, `entry.client.tsx` and `entry.server.tsx` (if they don't exist yet). In these files, add your initialization code for the client-side SDK and server-side SDK, respectively.

The two configuration types are mostly the same, except that some configuration features, like Session Replay, only work in `entry.client.tsx`.

```typescript {tabTitle:Client} {filename: entry.client.tsx}
import { useLocation, useMatches } from "@remix-run/react";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/remix";
import { useEffect } from "react";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.BrowserTracing({
      // Set `tracePropagationTargets` to control for which URLs distributed tracing should be enabled
      tracePropagationTargets: ["localhost", /^https:\/\/yourserver\.io\/api/],
      routingInstrumentation: Sentry.remixRouterInstrumentation(
        useEffect,
        useLocation,
        useMatches
      ),
    }),
    // Replay is only available in the client
    new Sentry.Replay(),
  ],

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,

  // Capture Replay for 10% of all sessions,
  // plus for 100% of sessions with an error
  replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1,
  replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

```typescript {tabTitle:Server} {filename: entry.server.tsx}
import { useLocation, useMatches } from "@remix-run/react";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/remix";
import { useEffect } from "react";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___DSN___",

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

Initialize Sentry in your entry point for the server to capture exceptions and get performance metrics for your [`action`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#action) and [`loader`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#loader) functions. You can also initialize Sentry's database integrations, such as Prisma, to get spans for your database calls.

```typescript {filename: entry.server.tsx}
import { prisma } from "~/db.server";

import * as Sentry from "@sentry/remix";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___DSN___",
  tracesSampleRate: 1,
  integrations: [new Sentry.Integrations.Prisma({ client: prisma })],
  // ...
});
```

<Note>

Learn more about <Link to="/platforms/node/performance/database/opt-in/#prisma-orm-integration">Sentry's Prisma integration </Link>.

</Note>

If you use a custom Express server in your Remix application, you should wrap your [`createRequestHandler` function](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/other-api/adapter#createrequesthandler) manually with `wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler`. This is not required if you use the built-in Remix App Server.

<Alert level="info">

`wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler` is available starting with version 7.11.0.

</Alert>

```typescript {filename: server/index.ts}
import { wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler } from "@sentry/remix";
import { createRequestHandler } from "@remix-run/express";

// ...

const createSentryRequestHandler =
  wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler(createRequestHandler);

// Use createSentryRequestHandler like you would with createRequestHandler
app.all("*", createSentryRequestHandler(/* ... */));
```

Also, wrap your Remix root with `withSentry` to catch React component errors and to get parameterized router transactions.

```typescript {filename: root.tsx}
import {
  Links,
  LiveReload,
  Meta,
  Outlet,
  Scripts,
  ScrollRestoration,
} from "@remix-run/react";

import { withSentry } from "@sentry/remix";

function App() {
  return (
    <html>
      <head>
        <Meta />
        <Links />
      </head>
      <body>
        <Outlet />
        <ScrollRestoration />
        <Scripts />
        <LiveReload />
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}

export default withSentry(App);
```

You can disable or configure `ErrorBoundary` using a second parameter to `withSentry`.

```ts
withSentry(App, {
  wrapWithErrorBoundary: false,
});

// or

withSentry(App, {
  errorBoundaryOptions: {
    fallback: <p>An error has occurred</p>,
  },
});
```

Once you've done this set up, the SDK will automatically capture unhandled errors and promise rejections, and monitor performance in the client. You can also [manually capture errors](/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/usage).

<Note>

You can refer to [Remix Docs](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/guides/envvars#browser-environment-variables) to learn how to use your Sentry DSN from environment variables.

</Note>
