src/platform-includes/getting-started-config/java.spring-boot.mdx, before:

Sentry's Spring Boot integration auto-configures `sentry.in-app-packages` property with the package where `@SpringBootApplication` or `@SpringBootConfiguration` annotated class is located.

Provide a `sentry.dsn` property using either `application.properties` or `application.yml`:

```properties {filename:application.properties}
sentry.dsn=___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
sentry:
  dsn: ___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

By default, only unhandled exceptions are sent to Sentry. This behavior can be tuned through configuring the `sentry.exception-resolver-order` property. For example, setting it to `-2147483647` (the value of `org.springframework.core.Ordered#HIGHEST_PRECEDENCE`) ensures exceptions that have been handled by exception resolvers with higher order are sent to Sentry - including ones handled by `@ExceptionHandler` annotated methods.

```properties {filename:application.properties}
sentry.exception-resolver-order=-2147483647
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
sentry:
  exception-resolver-order: -2147483647
```

We recommend using Sentry's Spring Boot integration with one of the [logging framework integrations](logging-frameworks/) as they work together seamlessly. To use Sentry **without** Spring Boot, we recommend using the [Sentry Spring integration](/platforms/java/guides/spring/).

Once this integration is configured you can _also_ use Sentry’s static API, [as shown on the usage page](usage/), to record breadcrumbs, set the current user, or manually send events, for example.

Commit message:

Mention traces sample rate and set it to 1.0 (#7089)

src/platform-includes/getting-started-config/java.spring-boot.mdx, after:

Sentry's Spring Boot integration auto-configures `sentry.in-app-packages` property with the package where `@SpringBootApplication` or `@SpringBootConfiguration` annotated class is located.

Provide a `sentry.dsn` property using either `application.properties` or `application.yml`:

```properties {filename:application.properties}
sentry.dsn=___PUBLIC_DSN___

# Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
# of transactions for performance monitoring.
# We recommend adjusting this value in production.
sentry.traces-sample-rate=1.0
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
sentry:
  dsn: ___PUBLIC_DSN___

  # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  # of transactions for performance monitoring.
  # We recommend adjusting this value in production.
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0
```

By default, only unhandled exceptions are sent to Sentry. This behavior can be tuned through configuring the `sentry.exception-resolver-order` property. For example, setting it to `-2147483647` (the value of `org.springframework.core.Ordered#HIGHEST_PRECEDENCE`) ensures exceptions that have been handled by exception resolvers with higher order are sent to Sentry - including ones handled by `@ExceptionHandler` annotated methods.

```properties {filename:application.properties}
sentry.exception-resolver-order=-2147483647
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
sentry:
  exception-resolver-order: -2147483647
```

We recommend using Sentry's Spring Boot integration with one of the [logging framework integrations](logging-frameworks/) as they work together seamlessly. To use Sentry **without** Spring Boot, we recommend using the [Sentry Spring integration](/platforms/java/guides/spring/).

Once this integration is configured you can _also_ use Sentry’s static API, [as shown on the usage page](usage/), to record breadcrumbs, set the current user, or manually send events, for example.
