src/platform-includes/getting-started-config/javascript.vue.mdx, before:

To initialize Sentry in your Vue application, add the following code snippet to your `main.js`:

### Vue 3

```javascript {filename:main.js}
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createRouter } from "vue-router";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/vue";

const app = createApp({
  // ...
});
const router = createRouter({
  // ...
});

Sentry.init({
  app,
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.BrowserTracing({
      routingInstrumentation: Sentry.vueRouterInstrumentation(router),
    }),
    new Sentry.Replay(),
  ],

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,

  // Capture Replay for 10% of all sessions,
  // plus for 100% of sessions with an error
  replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1,
  replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1.0,
});

app.use(router);
app.mount("#app");
```

### Vue 2

```javascript {filename:main.js}
import Vue from "vue";
import Router from "vue-router";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/vue";

Vue.use(Router);

const router = new Router({
  // ...
});

Sentry.init({
  Vue,
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.BrowserTracing({
      routingInstrumentation: Sentry.vueRouterInstrumentation(router),
    }),
    new Sentry.Replay(),
  ],

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,

  // Capture Replay for 10% of all sessions,
  // plus for 100% of sessions with an error
  replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1,
  replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1.0,
});

// ...

new Vue({
  router,
  render: (h) => h(App),
}).$mount("#app");
```

If you're creating more than one Vue 3 app within your application, check out how to initialize the SDK for [multiple apps](./features/multiple-apps).

### Vue-Specific configuration

The SDK accepts a few Vue-specific `Sentry.init` configuration options:

- `attachProps` (defaults to `true`) - Includes all Vue components' props with the events.
- `logErrors` (defaults to `true`) - Decides whether SDK should call Vue's original `logError` function as well.
- `trackComponents` (defaults to `false`) - Track your app's components. Learn more about [component tracking](./features/component-tracking) and all its options.

Commit message:

ref(js): Add `tracePropagationTargets` to SDK init code snippets (#7013)
Updates all JS SDK Sentry.init snippets that include `BrowserTracing` to also include the `tracePropagationTargets` options. The purpose of this change is to point out to users that `tracePropagationTargets` is necessary to control to which urls of outgoing requests, our distributed tracing headers should be added.

src/platform-includes/getting-started-config/javascript.vue.mdx, after:

To initialize Sentry in your Vue application, add the following code snippet to your `main.js`:

### Vue 3

```javascript {filename:main.js}
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createRouter } from "vue-router";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/vue";

const app = createApp({
  // ...
});
const router = createRouter({
  // ...
});

Sentry.init({
  app,
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.BrowserTracing({
      // Set `tracePropagationTargets` to control for which URLs distributed tracing should be enabled
      tracePropagationTargets: ["localhost", /^https:\/\/yourserver\.io\/api/],
      routingInstrumentation: Sentry.vueRouterInstrumentation(router),
    }),
    new Sentry.Replay(),
  ],

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,

  // Capture Replay for 10% of all sessions,
  // plus for 100% of sessions with an error
  replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1,
  replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1.0,
});

app.use(router);
app.mount("#app");
```

### Vue 2

```javascript {filename:main.js}
import Vue from "vue";
import Router from "vue-router";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/vue";

Vue.use(Router);

const router = new Router({
  // ...
});

Sentry.init({
  Vue,
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new Sentry.BrowserTracing({
      // Set `tracePropagationTargets` to control for which URLs distributed tracing should be enabled
      tracePropagationTargets: ["localhost", /^https:\/\/yourserver\.io\/api/],
      routingInstrumentation: Sentry.vueRouterInstrumentation(router),
    }),
    new Sentry.Replay(),
  ],

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,

  // Capture Replay for 10% of all sessions,
  // plus for 100% of sessions with an error
  replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1,
  replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1.0,
});

// ...

new Vue({
  router,
  render: (h) => h(App),
}).$mount("#app");
```

If you're creating more than one Vue 3 app within your application, check out how to initialize the SDK for [multiple apps](./features/multiple-apps).

### Vue-Specific configuration

The SDK accepts a few Vue-specific `Sentry.init` configuration options:

- `attachProps` (defaults to `true`) - Includes all Vue components' props with the events.
- `logErrors` (defaults to `true`) - Decides whether SDK should call Vue's original `logError` function as well.
- `trackComponents` (defaults to `false`) - Track your app's components. Learn more about [component tracking](./features/component-tracking) and all its options.
