src/docs/product/issues/states-triage/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Issue Status
sidebar_order: 30
description: "Learn how Issue status works and and how to triage Issues."
---

Paying attention to to the status tags attached to Issues on the [**Issues** page](https://sentry.sentry.io/issues/) in Sentry, can help you triage and prioritize problems with your application that are important to you. Keep in mind that an Issue can only have **one status at a time.**

Here's a list of all the statuses and the conditions for creating them:

| Status         | Condition                                             | Custom Search Term |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| **New**        | An issue that was created in the last 3 days.         | is:new             |
| **Ongoing**    | An issue that was created more than 3 days ago.       | is:ongoing         |
| **Escalating** | An issue that's exceeded its forecasted event volume. | is:escalating      |
| **Regressed**  | A resolved issue that's come up again.                | is:regressed       |
| **Archived**   | An issue that's been marked as archived.              | is:archived        |
| **Resolved**   | An issue that's been marked as fixed.                 | is:resolved        |

One way to limit the Issues that you see is by selecting a tab at the top of the **Issues** page. On the “Unresolved tab” you'll find: New, Ongoing, Escalating, and Regressed issues, but you can also narrow down further by choosing the “For Review”, “New”, “Escalating”, “Ongoing”, or “Archived” tabs.

## Manually Triaging Issues

While some Issue statuses are added and updated automatically, you can manually `Archive` or `Resolve` an Issue, which will also change its status.

![Manual vs. automatic issue status update](issue-status-docs.png)

### Archive

You can manually archive Issues that are less pressing or not applicable to you or your team. This will change their status to `Archived` and remove them from the Issues list. Sentry will automatically bring an Issue back to the top of the list and change its status to `Escalating` if the events in that Issue significantly increase over a short period of time. There's also an option to mark an Issue as `Archived` for:

- A set period of time
- Until it occurs a set number of times
- Until a set number of users are affected

### Resolve

You can manually mark an Issue as `Resolved` when it’s been fixed. You can also specify further by resolving it in:

- Your next release
- A current release
- Another release

or

- By [including the issue ID in a commit](/product/releases/associate-commits/?original_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.sentry.io%2Fproduct%2Fissues%2Fstates-triage%2F#resolve-issues-by-commit)

If the same Issue comes back, its status will be automatically changed to `Regressed`.

### Delete

You can remove an Issue from the Issue list by deleting it, but it will reappear as a new Issue if it recurs.

There's also an option to `Delete and Discard Forever`, which will make it so that the Issue is never seen again, even if it recurs. Any future events tied to the permanently deleted Issue will be discarded automatically and won't count towards [your quota](/product/accounts/quotas/).

<Note>

You can only delete [Error Issues](/product/issues/issue-details/error-issues/?original_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.sentry.io%2Fproduct%2Fissues%2Fstates-triage%2F). Other Issue categories, (such as [Performance Issues](/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/?original_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.sentry.io%2Fproduct%2Fissues%2Fstates-triage%2F)), don't support this feature.

</Note>

Commit message:

add escalating issues algorithm doc

src/docs/product/issues/states-triage/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Issue Status
sidebar_order: 30
description: "Learn how Issue status works and and how to triage Issues."
---

Paying attention to to the status tags attached to Issues on the [**Issues** page](https://sentry.sentry.io/issues/) in Sentry, can help you triage and prioritize problems with your application that are important to you. Keep in mind that an Issue can only have **one status at a time.**

Here's a list of all the statuses and the conditions for creating them:

| Status         | Condition                                             | Custom Search Term |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| **New**        | An issue that was created in the last 3 days.         | is:new             |
| **Ongoing**    | An issue that was created more than 3 days ago.       | is:ongoing         |
| **Escalating** | An issue that's exceeded its forecasted event volume. For more details, see [Escalating Issues Algorithm](escalating-issues).| is:escalating      |
| **Regressed**  | A resolved issue that's come up again.                | is:regressed       |
| **Archived**   | An issue that's been marked as archived.              | is:archived        |
| **Resolved**   | An issue that's been marked as fixed.                 | is:resolved        |

One way to limit the Issues that you see is by selecting a tab at the top of the **Issues** page. On the “Unresolved tab” you'll find: New, Ongoing, Escalating, and Regressed issues, but you can also narrow down further by choosing the “For Review”, “New”, “Escalating”, “Ongoing”, or “Archived” tabs.

## Manually Triaging Issues

While some Issue statuses are added and updated automatically, you can manually `Archive` or `Resolve` an Issue, which will also change its status.

![Manual vs. automatic issue status update](issue-status-docs.png)

### Archive

You can manually archive Issues that are less pressing or not applicable to you or your team. This will change their status to `Archived` and remove them from the Issues list. Sentry will automatically bring an Issue back to the top of the list and change its status to `Escalating` if the events in that Issue significantly increase over a short period of time. To learn more about how this works, see [Escalating Issues Algorithm](escalating-issues). There's also an option to mark an Issue as `Archived` for:

- A set period of time
- Until it occurs a set number of times
- Until a set number of users are affected

### Resolve

You can manually mark an Issue as `Resolved` when it’s been fixed. You can also specify further by resolving it in:

- Your next release
- A current release
- Another release

or

- By [including the issue ID in a commit](/product/releases/associate-commits/?original_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.sentry.io%2Fproduct%2Fissues%2Fstates-triage%2F#resolve-issues-by-commit)

If the same Issue comes back, its status will be automatically changed to `Regressed`.

### Delete

You can remove an Issue from the Issue list by deleting it, but it will reappear as a new Issue if it recurs.

There's also an option to `Delete and Discard Forever`, which will make it so that the Issue is never seen again, even if it recurs. Any future events tied to the permanently deleted Issue will be discarded automatically and won't count towards [your quota](/product/accounts/quotas/).

<Note>

You can only delete [Error Issues](/product/issues/issue-details/error-issues/?original_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.sentry.io%2Fproduct%2Fissues%2Fstates-triage%2F). Other Issue categories, (such as [Performance Issues](/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/?original_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.sentry.io%2Fproduct%2Fissues%2Fstates-triage%2F)), don't support this feature.

</Note>
