---
title: APM Glossary
sidebar_order: 5
---

### Hierarchy

Each span can be connected to other spans using a parent-child hierarchy. 

For example, a span called `updateJiraTask` would have child spans like `Check permissions`, `Update Task`, `sql.update`, `send.webhooks`.

Each sub-task would have an id in the attribute `parent_span_id` id of the “updateTask” span.

### Properties

Each span has a unique identifier kept in the `span_id` attribute.

Start time and end time are stored in the `start_timestamp` and `timestamp`. End time is captured in the attribute timestamp and not the end_timestamp for now because of compatibility reasons.

The name of the operation is stored in the “op” parameter. Examples are `http`, `sql.query`, `redis.command`.

Additional data about the operation can be stored in the `data` and `tags` attributes.

### Span

The **span** is the primary building block of a distributed trace, representing an individual unit of work done in a distributed system.

It can be the processing of an HTTP request by a server, the querying of a database, or an HTTP call to an external service.

An example of a span that describes a call to an external service:

    {
          "trace_id": "a0fa8803753e40fd8124b21eeb2986b5",
          "parent_span_id": "9c2a6db8c79068a2",
          "span_id": "8c931f4740435fb8",
          "start_timestamp": 1563890702.134,
          "same_process_as_parent": true,
          "description": "http://httpbin.org/base64/aGVsbG8gd29ybGQK GET",
          "tags": { "http.status_code": 200, "error": false },
          "timestamp": "1563890702.934",
          "op": "http",
          "data": {
            "url": "http://httpbin.org/base64/aGVsbG8gd29ybGQK",
            "status_code": 200,
            "reason": "OK",
            "method": "GET"
          }
        }

## Trace

A trace is a collection of spans that have the same `trace_id` attribute. Traces consist of all spans generated by the distributed system during the processing of the input data. Traces are not explicitly started or finished. The start and end of a trace are defined by the transactions and spans participating in the trace.

### Propagation

Processing of the input data in the distributed environment means that an arbitrary number of the systems/microservices can be involved.

To connect all the spans that were created during the processing of the input data, we need to be able to propagate the basic identifier. By forwarding `trace_id` and `parent_span_id` as data travels through various applications in a microservice ecosystem, we can reconstruct data flows later.

Trace metadata is propagated through http headers that are included in the http request to the external system.

## Transaction

There already was a concept of transaction in the Sentry SDKs before we started with APM.

Transaction is an event attribute that provides initial context to the error report. This makes it possible for the error to be linked to a specific part of the system. An example of the transaction name can be “/users/” which is the name for the endpoint that received the request that failed during the processing.

With APM, the transaction is a parent span to all spans created during the processing of the request in the single server.

Once the request is processed, the transaction is sent together with all child spans to Sentry.

### Event Types

The SDKs already collect a lot of information about the processing of the request. In the case of an error, the SDK attaches the info to the error report to provide rich context of what happened before the error appeared -- information like tags and breadcrumbs.

If the error doesn’t appear during the processing of the request, we discard the context data once processing is complete.

We want to leverage this context collection to build spans, and once a request is finished, we want to send the data to Sentry.

Example of the transaction event type:

    {     
          "transaction": "tracing.decode_base64",      
          "type": "transaction",                       
          "event_id": "2975518984734ef49d2f75db4e928ddc",
          "contexts": {
        	"trace": {                   
        		"parent_span_id": "946edde6ee421874",      
        		"trace_id": "a0fa8803753e40fd8124b21eeb2986b5", 
        		"span_id": "9c2a6db8c79068a2"   
        	}
          },
          "start_timestamp": 1582555570.879015, 
          "timestamp": 1582555570.905113,    
          "server_name": "apfeltasche.local",
          "extra": {
        	"sys.argv": ["/Users/untitaker/projects/sentry-python/.venv/bin/flask","worker"]
          },
          "modules": {
        	"more-itertools": "5.0.0",
        	"six": "1.12.0",
        	"funcsigs": "1.0.2"
          },
          "platform": "python",
          "spans": [
            {
              "op": "db",
              "description": "SELECT * from countries where id = ?",
              "start_timestamp": 1562681591,
              "timestamp": 1562681591,
              "parent_span_id": "9c2a6db8c79068a2",
              "trace_id": "a0fa8803753e40fd8124b21eeb2986b5",
              "data": {},
              "tags": {}
            }
          ],
          "breadcrumbs": [
        	  {
        		"category": "httplib",
        	  	"data": {
        		  	"url": "http://httpbin.org/base64/aGVsbG8gd29ybGQK",
        		  	"status_code": 200,
        	  		"reason": "OK",
        	  		"method": "GET"
        		  },
        		  "type": "http",
        		  "timestamp": "2019-06-14T12:01:41Z"
        	  }
          ],
          "sdk": {
        	"version": "0.9.0",
        	"name": "sentry.python",
        	"packages": [{ "version": "0.9.0", "name": "pypi:sentry-sdk" }],
        	"integrations": ["argv"]
          }
        }

## Performance Metric Definitions

As part of APM and transaction data, we’re exposing a few new aggregate metrics to help customers better understand the performance of their applications.

### Duration Percentiles

The average, 75%, and 95% duration, help guide customers in identifying transactions that are slower than the user’s target SLAs.

Our APM data is sampled, so the percentiles we present only represent the data we have. Because of sampling, data ranges, filters, or a low traffic transaction, we will often have a case where data is directionally correct, but not accurate. For example, the average of one number is that number, but that’s not usually what people expect to see.

This inability to be usefully accurate will happen more often in some columns than others. We can calculate an average with less data than a 95th percentile, but it’ll also vary by row. An index page will always get more traffic than /settings/country/belgium/tax.

To signal this lack of accuracy to the user, we’ll show a **warning** to users:

- If there are fewer than 5 data-points, we’ll show “n/a” in the average column.
- If there are fewer than 20 data-points, we’ll show “n/a” in the 75th percentile
- If there are fewer than 100 data-points, we’ll show “n/a” in the 95th percentile

The UI will highlight any warnings visually and let the user know that they should increase their sampling rate or make a less precise query.

In addition to warnings, some fields are meaningless at certain cardinalities. For example, if you have one data-point, the 95th percentile means nothing.

- If the RPM <1, we’ll show “<1”
- If there are less than 4 data-points, we’ll show “n/a” in the 75th percentile
- If there are less than 20 data-points, we’ll show “n/a” in the 95th percentile

### Percentage Query

This column shows the % of the entire query that this row represents, so you filter your results with the query and then see how much of the result set a particular transaction represents.

### Requests Per Minute (RPM)

Requests Per Minute is a way to measure throughput. It is the average of all requests bucketed by the minute for the current time window and query string.
