src/platforms/android/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve common issues with the Android SDK."
sidebar_order: 2000
---

## Sentry Android SDK causes ANR

Since version `6.1.1` of the Sentry SDK for Android, you can opt-out of some additional device context.

```xml {tabTitle:AndroidManifest.xml}
<application>
  <meta-data android:name="io.sentry.additional-context" android:value="false" />
</application>
```

```java {tabTitle:MyFile.java}
options.setCollectAdditionalContext(false);
```

[More context in the PR](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2100) that added this option.

The motivation for it is that some of the Android API's the Sentry SDK relies on to add additional context, can be slow in some devices.
For example, the following stack traces:

```
  #00  pc 000000000007550c  /apex/com.android.runtime/lib64/bionic/libc.so (syscall+28)
  #00  pc 00000000001af800  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::ConditionVariable::WaitHoldingLocks(art::Thread*)+148)
  #00  pc 0000000000669f3c  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::GoToRunnable(art::Thread*)+460)
  #00  pc 0000000000669d2c  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::JniMethodEnd(unsigned int, art::Thread*)+28)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transactNative (Native method)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transact (BinderProxy.java:568)
  at android.net.IConnectivityManager$Stub$Proxy.getActiveNetwork (IConnectivityManager.java:2435)
  at android.net.ConnectivityManager.getActiveNetwork (ConnectivityManager.java:1033)
  at io.sentry.android.core.internal.util.ConnectivityChecker.getConnectionType (ConnectivityChecker.java:101)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDeviceIO (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:375)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.getDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:285)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:173)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setCommons (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:140)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.process (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:130)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.processEvent (SentryClient.java:206)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.captureEvent (SentryClient.java:88)
  at io.sentry.Hub.captureEvent (Hub.java:89)
  at io.sentry.Sentry.captureEvent (Sentry.java:262)
  at io.sentry.HubAdapter.captureEvent (HubAdapter.java:29)
  at io.sentry.IHub.captureEvent (IHub.java:39)
  at io.sentry.IHub$-CC.$default$captureEvent (IHub.java)
  at io.sentry.HubAdapter.captureEvent (HubAdapter.java:29)
```

```
  #00  pc 0000000000086f8c  /apex/com.android.runtime/lib64/bionic/libc.so (syscall+28)
  #00  pc 00000000001b27a4  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::ConditionVariable::WaitHoldingLocks(art::Thread*)+148)
  #00  pc 000000000067e9d0  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::GoToRunnable(art::Thread*)+480)
  #00  pc 000000000067e7ac  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::JniMethodEnd(unsigned int, art::Thread*)+28)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transactNative (Native method)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transact (BinderProxy.java:605)
  at android.app.IActivityManager$Stub$Proxy.registerReceiverWithFeature (IActivityManager.java:6380)
  at android.app.ContextImpl.registerReceiverInternal (ContextImpl.java:1696)
  at android.app.ContextImpl.registerReceiver (ContextImpl.java:1650)
  at android.app.ContextImpl.registerReceiver (ContextImpl.java:1638)
  at android.content.ContextWrapper.registerReceiver (ContextWrapper.java:686)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.getBatteryIntent (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:434)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDeviceIO (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:326)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.getDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:285)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:173)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setCommons (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:140)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.process (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:130)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.processEvent (SentryClient.java:206)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.captureEvent (SentryClient.java:88)
  at io.sentry.Hub.captureEvent (Hub.java:89)
  at io.sentry.Sentry.captureEvent (Sentry.java:262)
  at io.sentry.HubAdapter.captureEvent (HubAdapter.java:29)
```

## NDK

If you're using a version of `sentry-android` before 5.0, due to current limitations in how `sentry-native` works, it cannot identify native libraries loaded directly from `.apk` files. Instead, it needs to have access to the extracted libraries on the file system.
This functionality is [disabled by default](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/gradle-plugin#extractNativeLibs)
when using an Android Gradle Plugin >= v3.6.0, and it needs to be enabled with the
[`extractNativeLibs`](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element#extractNativeLibs) configuration option.

If you're using [Android App Bundle](https://developer.android.com/guide/app-bundle), set `android.bundle.enableUncompressedNativeLibs=false` along with the `extractNativeLibs` configuration option.

In addition, `sentry-native` uses [tagged pointers](https://source.android.com/devices/tech/debug/tagged-pointers)
internally. As a result, the Android SDK won't work out of the box on devices with a newer Android OS because they have their own conflicting pointer tagging.

<Note>

If you're using a version of `sentry-android` before 3.1, you must manually disable the [`allowNativeHeapPointerTagging`](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element#allowNativeHeapPointerTagging) configuration option because `sentry-native` uses [tagged pointers](https://source.android.com/devices/tech/debug/tagged-pointers)
internally. As a result, this option won't work out of the box on devices with a newer Android OS because they have their own conflicting pointer tagging. This is fixed in `sentry-android` versions 3.1 and above.

</Note>

**Example AndroidManifest.xml**:

```xml {filename:AndroidManifest.xml}
<application
    android:allowNativeHeapPointerTagging="false"
    android:extractNativeLibs="true">
</application>
```

**Example gradle.properties**:

```properties {filename:gradle.properties}
android.bundle.enableUncompressedNativeLibs=false
```

## Sentry Android Gradle Plugin Build Issues

### Proguard Mapping Upload Issues

You can set the debug log flag as an environment variable, which is picked up by the [Sentry CLI](/product/cli/).
In addition, set the `--stacktrace` flag:

```
export SENTRY_LOG_LEVEL=debug && ./gradlew app:uploadSentryProguardMappingsRelease --stacktrace
```

With this information, it might be more clear what's happening. If not, please consider reporting these issues on [GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin/issues), so we can keep track of them.

### Auto-instrumentation Issues

The [Sentry Android Gradle plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) uses bytecode manipulation to automatically measure the performance of your application. This process requires looking at the dependencies of the application, which can potentially break the build process if there are libraries which have been compiled/minified with a non-default java compiler, like R8/D8.

The culprit is usually our [File I/O instrumentation](/platforms/android/configuration/integrations/file-io/), which can be disabled as follows:

```groovy
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = true
    features = EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature) - InstrumentationFeature.FILE_IO
  }
}
```

```kotlin
import java.util.EnumSet
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(true)
    features.set(EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature::class.java) - InstrumentationFeature.FILE_IO)
  }
}
```

If disabling the file I/O instrumentation feature doesn't help, you can also disable the entire bytecode manipulation logic through the `tracingInstrumentation.enabled` flag:

```groovy
sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = false
  }
}
```

```kotlin
sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(false)
  }
}
```

Please consider reporting these issues on [GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin/issues), so we can keep track of them.

### Auto-installation Issues

The [Sentry Android Gradle plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) offers the automated installation feature of the Sentry Android SDK and the Fragment, Timber, and OkHttp integrations. Because we modify the dependency tree, this might lead to potential issues with Gradle's configuration and build phases.

#### `StackOverflowError` During Sync or Build

If you're experiencing a `StackOverflowError` when trying to trigger a Gradle Sync in Android Studio or during the Gradle build, it's most likely [this issue](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/232075280) documented on the Android Gradle Plugin (AGP) site. The issue is only present in version `7.2.0` of AGP and can be fixed as follows:

Update the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin to version `3.1.3` or above:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'io.sentry.android.gradle' version '{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.1.3') }}'
}
```

Or update the Android Gradle Plugin to version `7.2.1`:

```groovy
plugins {
  id 'com.android.application' version '7.2.1'
}
```

If the problem persists, it's most likely caused by some other Gradle plugin that is processing `.pom` files. In this case, you can work around the problem by upgrading the `sentry-android` or `sentry-android-core` dependency to version `6.3.0` or above:

```groovy
dependencies {
  implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android', '6.3.0') }}' // or sentry-android-core if you don't use the ndk package
}
```

#### Runtime Crash When Using `sentry-android-core` in a Submodule

If you're declaring a `sentry-android-core:6.x` dependency that's **not in** your main `app` module, but in one of the submodules, and you're using the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin version `3.1.0`, the application will crash at runtime with a `NoSuchMethodError`. This is because the plugin will try to install the `sentry-android-ndk` with an incompatible version `5.7.0`. To fix this problem, you can update the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin to version `3.1.1` or above:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'io.sentry.android.gradle' version '{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.1.1') }}'
}
```

Alternatively, you can tell the plugin to use your version of the sentry NDK:

```groovy
sentry {
  autoInstallation {
    sentryVersion = '6.0.0' // or whatever version you use for `sentry-android-core`
  }
}
```

<Note>

This problem is only relevant to these specific versions: `sentry-android-core` version `6.+` and `sentry-android-gradle-plugin` version `3.1.0`.

</Note>

Check [this issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin/issues/329) for more details.

Commit message:

added a Kotlin section to Android Troubleshooting regarding kotlin inline function reported with wrong line numbers

src/platforms/android/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve common issues with the Android SDK."
sidebar_order: 2000
---

## Sentry Android SDK causes ANR

Since version `6.1.1` of the Sentry SDK for Android, you can opt-out of some additional device context.

```xml {tabTitle:AndroidManifest.xml}
<application>
  <meta-data android:name="io.sentry.additional-context" android:value="false" />
</application>
```

```java {tabTitle:MyFile.java}
options.setCollectAdditionalContext(false);
```

[More context in the PR](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2100) that added this option.

The motivation for it is that some of the Android API's the Sentry SDK relies on to add additional context, can be slow in some devices.
For example, the following stack traces:

```
  #00  pc 000000000007550c  /apex/com.android.runtime/lib64/bionic/libc.so (syscall+28)
  #00  pc 00000000001af800  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::ConditionVariable::WaitHoldingLocks(art::Thread*)+148)
  #00  pc 0000000000669f3c  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::GoToRunnable(art::Thread*)+460)
  #00  pc 0000000000669d2c  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::JniMethodEnd(unsigned int, art::Thread*)+28)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transactNative (Native method)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transact (BinderProxy.java:568)
  at android.net.IConnectivityManager$Stub$Proxy.getActiveNetwork (IConnectivityManager.java:2435)
  at android.net.ConnectivityManager.getActiveNetwork (ConnectivityManager.java:1033)
  at io.sentry.android.core.internal.util.ConnectivityChecker.getConnectionType (ConnectivityChecker.java:101)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDeviceIO (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:375)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.getDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:285)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:173)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setCommons (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:140)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.process (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:130)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.processEvent (SentryClient.java:206)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.captureEvent (SentryClient.java:88)
  at io.sentry.Hub.captureEvent (Hub.java:89)
  at io.sentry.Sentry.captureEvent (Sentry.java:262)
  at io.sentry.HubAdapter.captureEvent (HubAdapter.java:29)
  at io.sentry.IHub.captureEvent (IHub.java:39)
  at io.sentry.IHub$-CC.$default$captureEvent (IHub.java)
  at io.sentry.HubAdapter.captureEvent (HubAdapter.java:29)
```

```
  #00  pc 0000000000086f8c  /apex/com.android.runtime/lib64/bionic/libc.so (syscall+28)
  #00  pc 00000000001b27a4  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::ConditionVariable::WaitHoldingLocks(art::Thread*)+148)
  #00  pc 000000000067e9d0  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::GoToRunnable(art::Thread*)+480)
  #00  pc 000000000067e7ac  /apex/com.android.art/lib64/libart.so (art::JniMethodEnd(unsigned int, art::Thread*)+28)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transactNative (Native method)
  at android.os.BinderProxy.transact (BinderProxy.java:605)
  at android.app.IActivityManager$Stub$Proxy.registerReceiverWithFeature (IActivityManager.java:6380)
  at android.app.ContextImpl.registerReceiverInternal (ContextImpl.java:1696)
  at android.app.ContextImpl.registerReceiver (ContextImpl.java:1650)
  at android.app.ContextImpl.registerReceiver (ContextImpl.java:1638)
  at android.content.ContextWrapper.registerReceiver (ContextWrapper.java:686)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.getBatteryIntent (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:434)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDeviceIO (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:326)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.getDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:285)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setDevice (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:173)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.setCommons (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:140)
  at io.sentry.android.core.DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.process (DefaultAndroidEventProcessor.java:130)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.processEvent (SentryClient.java:206)
  at io.sentry.SentryClient.captureEvent (SentryClient.java:88)
  at io.sentry.Hub.captureEvent (Hub.java:89)
  at io.sentry.Sentry.captureEvent (Sentry.java:262)
  at io.sentry.HubAdapter.captureEvent (HubAdapter.java:29)
```

## Kotlin

Stack trace elements referring to Kotlin inline functions from files different than the call site are incorrect, due to how they are compiled.
A .class file with inline functions contains code from many source files. When the JVM generates a stacktrace, it will contain a different line number, because it doesn't substitute the class and line in which the error occurred with the original file and line number.
As a result, if an exception is thrown inside an inline function, the line number of the stack trace of the Exception could be wrong.
This is a missing feature in the JVM itself, so "Sentry can't fix this".

## NDK

If you're using a version of `sentry-android` before 5.0, due to current limitations in how `sentry-native` works, it cannot identify native libraries loaded directly from `.apk` files. Instead, it needs to have access to the extracted libraries on the file system.
This functionality is [disabled by default](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/gradle-plugin#extractNativeLibs)
when using an Android Gradle Plugin >= v3.6.0, and it needs to be enabled with the
[`extractNativeLibs`](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element#extractNativeLibs) configuration option.

If you're using [Android App Bundle](https://developer.android.com/guide/app-bundle), set `android.bundle.enableUncompressedNativeLibs=false` along with the `extractNativeLibs` configuration option.

In addition, `sentry-native` uses [tagged pointers](https://source.android.com/devices/tech/debug/tagged-pointers)
internally. As a result, the Android SDK won't work out of the box on devices with a newer Android OS because they have their own conflicting pointer tagging.

<Note>

If you're using a version of `sentry-android` before 3.1, you must manually disable the [`allowNativeHeapPointerTagging`](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element#allowNativeHeapPointerTagging) configuration option because `sentry-native` uses [tagged pointers](https://source.android.com/devices/tech/debug/tagged-pointers)
internally. As a result, this option won't work out of the box on devices with a newer Android OS because they have their own conflicting pointer tagging. This is fixed in `sentry-android` versions 3.1 and above.

</Note>

**Example AndroidManifest.xml**:

```xml {filename:AndroidManifest.xml}
<application
    android:allowNativeHeapPointerTagging="false"
    android:extractNativeLibs="true">
</application>
```

**Example gradle.properties**:

```properties {filename:gradle.properties}
android.bundle.enableUncompressedNativeLibs=false
```

## Sentry Android Gradle Plugin Build Issues

### Proguard Mapping Upload Issues

You can set the debug log flag as an environment variable, which is picked up by the [Sentry CLI](/product/cli/).
In addition, set the `--stacktrace` flag:

```
export SENTRY_LOG_LEVEL=debug && ./gradlew app:uploadSentryProguardMappingsRelease --stacktrace
```

With this information, it might be more clear what's happening. If not, please consider reporting these issues on [GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin/issues), so we can keep track of them.

### Auto-instrumentation Issues

The [Sentry Android Gradle plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) uses bytecode manipulation to automatically measure the performance of your application. This process requires looking at the dependencies of the application, which can potentially break the build process if there are libraries which have been compiled/minified with a non-default java compiler, like R8/D8.

The culprit is usually our [File I/O instrumentation](/platforms/android/configuration/integrations/file-io/), which can be disabled as follows:

```groovy
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = true
    features = EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature) - InstrumentationFeature.FILE_IO
  }
}
```

```kotlin
import java.util.EnumSet
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(true)
    features.set(EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature::class.java) - InstrumentationFeature.FILE_IO)
  }
}
```

If disabling the file I/O instrumentation feature doesn't help, you can also disable the entire bytecode manipulation logic through the `tracingInstrumentation.enabled` flag:

```groovy
sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = false
  }
}
```

```kotlin
sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(false)
  }
}
```

Please consider reporting these issues on [GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin/issues), so we can keep track of them.

### Auto-installation Issues

The [Sentry Android Gradle plugin](/platforms/android/configuration/gradle/) offers the automated installation feature of the Sentry Android SDK and the Fragment, Timber, and OkHttp integrations. Because we modify the dependency tree, this might lead to potential issues with Gradle's configuration and build phases.

#### `StackOverflowError` During Sync or Build

If you're experiencing a `StackOverflowError` when trying to trigger a Gradle Sync in Android Studio or during the Gradle build, it's most likely [this issue](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/232075280) documented on the Android Gradle Plugin (AGP) site. The issue is only present in version `7.2.0` of AGP and can be fixed as follows:

Update the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin to version `3.1.3` or above:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'io.sentry.android.gradle' version '{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.1.3') }}'
}
```

Or update the Android Gradle Plugin to version `7.2.1`:

```groovy
plugins {
  id 'com.android.application' version '7.2.1'
}
```

If the problem persists, it's most likely caused by some other Gradle plugin that is processing `.pom` files. In this case, you can work around the problem by upgrading the `sentry-android` or `sentry-android-core` dependency to version `6.3.0` or above:

```groovy
dependencies {
  implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android', '6.3.0') }}' // or sentry-android-core if you don't use the ndk package
}
```

#### Runtime Crash When Using `sentry-android-core` in a Submodule

If you're declaring a `sentry-android-core:6.x` dependency that's **not in** your main `app` module, but in one of the submodules, and you're using the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin version `3.1.0`, the application will crash at runtime with a `NoSuchMethodError`. This is because the plugin will try to install the `sentry-android-ndk` with an incompatible version `5.7.0`. To fix this problem, you can update the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin to version `3.1.1` or above:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'io.sentry.android.gradle' version '{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.1.1') }}'
}
```

Alternatively, you can tell the plugin to use your version of the sentry NDK:

```groovy
sentry {
  autoInstallation {
    sentryVersion = '6.0.0' // or whatever version you use for `sentry-android-core`
  }
}
```

<Note>

This problem is only relevant to these specific versions: `sentry-android-core` version `6.+` and `sentry-android-gradle-plugin` version `3.1.0`.

</Note>

Check [this issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin/issues/329) for more details.
