src/platforms/common/data-management/debug-files/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Debug Information Files"
sidebar_order: 7
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/debug-files/
supported:
  - native
  - android
  - cocoa
  - javascript.capacitor
  - apple
  - unity
  - unreal
  - dotnet
  - flutter
  - react-native
description: "Learn about how debug information files allow Sentry to extract stack traces and provide more information about crash reports for most compiled platforms."
---

Debug information files allow Sentry to extract stack traces and provide more
information about crash reports for most compiled platforms. Information stored
in debug files includes original function names, paths to source files and line
numbers, source code context, or the placement of variables in memory. Sentry
can use some of this information and display it on the issue details page.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["native.wasm"]}>

Each major platform uses different debug information files. We currently support
the following formats:

- [_dSYM files_](./file-formats/#mach-o-and-dsym) for iOS, iPadOS,
  tvOS, watchOS, and macOS
- [_ELF symbols_](./file-formats/#executable-and-linkable-format-elf) for Linux and
  Android (NDK)
- [_PDB files_](./file-formats/#pe-and-pdb) for Windows and .NET
- [_Breakpad symbols_](./file-formats/#breakpad-symbols) for all
  platforms
- [_WASM files_](./file-formats/#wasm) for WebAssembly
- [_ProGuard mappings_](./file-formats/#proguard-mappings) for
  Java and Android

</PlatformSection>

<Note>

Source maps, while also being debug information files, are handled
differently in Sentry. For more information see [Source Maps in sentry-cli](/product/cli/releases/#sentry-cli-sourcemaps).

</Note>

Sentry requires access to debug information files of your application as well as
system libraries to provide fully symbolicated crash reports. You can either
[upload](./upload/) your files to Sentry or put them on a compatible
[Symbol Server](./symbol-servers/) to be downloaded by Sentry when needed.

## Managing Debug Information Files

After they have been uploaded, debug information files can be viewed and managed
from the _Debug Files_ section in the associated project's settings page. That page
lists all uploaded debug files, and also allows you to configure symbol servers
for automatic downloads.

From the [Project Details](/product/projects/project-details/) page, click into settings,
then click on _Debug Files_ in the page navigation.

<Note>

ProGuard files are listed separately, in the _ProGuard_ section of the project settings page.

</Note>

## Learn More

<PageGrid />

Commit message:

Document Debug File Retention Policy
This documents the time-to-idle retention policy of debug files. After 90 days of being idle, we will delete them.

src/platforms/common/data-management/debug-files/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Debug Information Files"
sidebar_order: 7
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/debug-files/
supported:
  - native
  - android
  - cocoa
  - javascript.capacitor
  - apple
  - unity
  - unreal
  - dotnet
  - flutter
  - react-native
description: "Learn about how debug information files allow Sentry to extract stack traces and provide more information about crash reports for most compiled platforms."
---

Debug information files allow Sentry to extract stack traces and provide more
information about crash reports for most compiled platforms. Information stored
in debug files includes original function names, paths to source files and line
numbers, source code context, or the placement of variables in memory. Sentry
can use some of this information and display it on the issue details page.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["native.wasm"]}>

Each major platform uses different debug information files. We currently support
the following formats:

- [_dSYM files_](./file-formats/#mach-o-and-dsym) for iOS, iPadOS,
  tvOS, watchOS, and macOS
- [_ELF symbols_](./file-formats/#executable-and-linkable-format-elf) for Linux and
  Android (NDK)
- [_PDB files_](./file-formats/#pe-and-pdb) for Windows and .NET
- [_Breakpad symbols_](./file-formats/#breakpad-symbols) for all
  platforms
- [_WASM files_](./file-formats/#wasm) for WebAssembly
- [_ProGuard mappings_](./file-formats/#proguard-mappings) for
  Java and Android

</PlatformSection>

<Note>

Source maps, while also being debug information files, are handled
differently in Sentry. For more information see [Source Maps in sentry-cli](/product/cli/releases/#sentry-cli-sourcemaps).

</Note>

Sentry requires access to debug information files of your application as well as
system libraries to provide fully symbolicated crash reports. You can either
[upload](./upload/) your files to Sentry or put them on a compatible
[Symbol Server](./symbol-servers/) to be downloaded by Sentry when needed.

## Managing Debug Information Files

After they have been uploaded, debug information files can be viewed and managed
from the _Debug Files_ section in the associated project's settings page. That page
lists all uploaded debug files, and also allows you to configure symbol servers
for automatic downloads.

From the [Project Details](/product/projects/project-details/) page, click into settings,
then click on _Debug Files_ in the page navigation.

<Note>

ProGuard files are listed separately, in the _ProGuard_ section of the project settings page.

</Note>

## Retention Policy

Debug Files have a retention period of _90 days_, using a _time to idle_ expiration mechanism.
This means that uploaded debug files are retained for as long as they are actively being used for event processing.
Once a debug file has not been used to process incoming events for at least 90 days,
it will automatically expire and be eligible for deletion.

## Learn More

<PageGrid />
