src/platforms/react-native/upload-debug.mdx, before:

---
title: Debug Symbols
sidebar_order: 96
description: "Learn about using the Sentry Gradle Plugin or sentry-cli for providing debug symbols to Sentry."
---

Debug symbols help provide you with readable stack traces, which Sentry displays on the **Issue Details** page, to help you triage an issue. We offer a range of methods to provide Sentry with debug symbols.

## When to Upload

With default settings, complete stack traces are available in your Java/Kotlin error, out of the box, unless you use [enableProguardInReleaseBuilds](https://reactnative.dev/docs/signed-apk-android#enabling-proguard-to-reduce-the-size-of-the-apk-optional). In this case, you need to upload the ProGuard/R8 mapping files generated by the [Android Gradle Plugin](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/shrink-code#shrink-code), so Sentry can show you proper stack traces.

Errors raised from the native layer in Android apps require certain debug information files to be uploaded. For example, dwarf debug files need to be uploaded for an Android app with [NDK](https://developer.android.com/ndk/) support.

## Uploading With Sentry Gradle Plugin

Upload the [Android ProGuard/R8 mapping files and native symbols](/platforms/android/proguard/) by the recommended method of using our Gradle integration.

## Uploading With sentry-cli

Upload the [Android ProGuard/R8 mapping files and native symbols](/product/cli/) manually by using `sentry-cli` [upload-proguard](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload) and [debug-files](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files).

Commit message:

Add iOS source context info to RN debug symbols page

src/platforms/react-native/upload-debug.mdx, after:

---
title: Debug Symbols
sidebar_order: 96
description: "Learn about using the Sentry Gradle Plugin or sentry-cli for providing debug symbols to Sentry."
---

Debug symbols help provide you with readable stack traces, which Sentry displays on the **Issue Details** page, to help you triage an issue. We offer a range of methods to provide Sentry with debug symbols.

## When to Upload

With default settings, complete stack traces are available in your Java/Kotlin error, out of the box, unless you use [enableProguardInReleaseBuilds](https://reactnative.dev/docs/signed-apk-android#enabling-proguard-to-reduce-the-size-of-the-apk-optional). In this case, you need to upload the ProGuard/R8 mapping files generated by the [Android Gradle Plugin](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/shrink-code#shrink-code), so Sentry can show you proper stack traces.

Errors raised from the native layer in Android apps require certain debug information files to be uploaded. For example, dwarf debug files need to be uploaded for an Android app with [NDK](https://developer.android.com/ndk/) support.

## Uploading With Sentry Gradle Plugin

Upload the [Android ProGuard/R8 mapping files and native symbols](/platforms/android/proguard/) by the recommended method of using our Gradle integration.

## Uploading With Xcode

Build phase [`Upload Debug Symbols to Sentry`](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/manual-setup/#upload-debug-symbols-to-sentry) uses `sentry-cli` to upload native iOS debug symbols. To enable [Source Context](/platforms/apple/guides/ios/data-management/debug-files/source-context/) you can use `SENTRY_INCLUDE_NATIVE_SOURCES=true` environmental variable set before build.

## Uploading With sentry-cli

Upload the [Android ProGuard/R8 mapping files and native symbols](/product/cli/) manually by using `sentry-cli` [upload-proguard](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload) and [debug-files](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files).
