src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.mdx, before:

## Uploading Source Maps

We've compiled a list of guides on how to upload source maps to Sentry for the most popular JavaScript build tools:

### Sentry Bundler Support

- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/webpack/">Webpack</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/rollup/">Rollup</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/vite/">Vite</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/esbuild/">esbuild</PlatformLink>

### Guides

- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/typescript/">
    TypeScript (tsc)
  </PlatformLink>
  <Note>
    If you're using one of Webpack, Vite, Rollup or Esbuild, use the
    corresponding Sentry plugin instead (see section "Sentry Bundler Support").
  </Note>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/uglifyjs/">UglifyJS</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/systemjs/">SystemJS</PlatformLink>
- [GitHub Actions](/product/releases/setup/release-automation/github-actions/)

### Other Tools

If you're not using one of these tools, we assume you already know how to generate source maps with your toolchain and we recommend you upload them using <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/cli/">Sentry CLI</PlatformLink>.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["node"]}>

<Note>

Though we strongly recommend uploading source maps as part of your build process, for browser applications it's also possible to <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/hosting-publicly/">host your source maps publicly</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

</PlatformSection>

Commit message:

Add sourcemaps wizard instructions to uploading source maps docs

src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.mdx, after:

## Uploading Source Maps

We've compiled a list of guides on how to upload source maps to Sentry for the most popular JavaScript build tools:

### Using the Sentry Wizard

The easiest way to configure uploading source maps is by using the Sentry Wizard:

<Include name="sourcemaps-wizard-instructions.mdx"/>

If you want to configure source maps upload manually, follow the guide for your bundler or build tool below.

### Sentry Bundler Support

- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/webpack/">Webpack</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/rollup/">Rollup</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/vite/">Vite</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/esbuild/">esbuild</PlatformLink>

### Guides

- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/typescript/">
    TypeScript (tsc)
  </PlatformLink>
  <Note>
    If you're using one of Webpack, Vite, Rollup or Esbuild, use the
    corresponding Sentry plugin instead (see section "Sentry Bundler Support").
  </Note>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/uglifyjs/">UglifyJS</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/systemjs/">SystemJS</PlatformLink>
- [GitHub Actions](/product/releases/setup/release-automation/github-actions/)

### Other Tools

If you're not using one of these tools, we assume you already know how to generate source maps with your toolchain and we recommend you upload them using <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/cli/">Sentry CLI</PlatformLink>.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["node"]}>

<Note>

Though we strongly recommend uploading source maps as part of your build process, for browser applications it's also possible to <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/hosting-publicly/">host your source maps publicly</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

</PlatformSection>
