src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.vue.mdx, before:

## Uploading Source Maps using Vite

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using the `@sentry/vue` SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

If you are using Vue, chances are good you are using Vite to bundle your project.
You can use the Sentry Vite plugin to automatically create [releases](/product/releases/) and upload source maps to Sentry when bundling your app.

### Installation

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/vite-plugin --dev
```

### Configuration

Learn more about configuring the plugin in our [Sentry Vite Plugin documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sentry/vite-plugin).

To upload source maps you have to configure an auth token.
Auth tokens can be passed to the plugin explicitly with the `authToken` option, with a `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable, or with a `.env.sentry-build-plugin` file in the working directory when building your project.
You likely want to add the auth token as an environment variable to your CI/CD environment.

<OrgAuthTokenNote />

```bash {filename:.env.sentry-build-plugin}
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___
```

Example:

<SignInNote />

```javascript {filename:vite.config.js}
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import vue from "@vitejs/plugin-vue";
import { sentryVitePlugin } from "@sentry/vite-plugin";

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    sourcemap: true, // Source map generation must be turned on
  },
  plugins: [
    vue(),

    // Put the Sentry vite plugin after all other plugins
    sentryVitePlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
});
```

<Note>

The Sentry Vite plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your implementation.

</Note>

## Other Bundlers

In case you are using a bundler other than Vite to build your Vue project, we've compiled a list of guides on how to upload source maps to Sentry for the most popular JavaScript bundlers:

- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/webpack/">webpack</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/typescript/">
    TypeScript (tsc)
  </PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/rollup/">Rollup</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/esbuild/">esbuild</PlatformLink>

## Other Tools

If you're not using any of tools above, we assume you already know how to generate source maps with your toolchain and we recommend you upload them using <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/cli/">Sentry CLI</PlatformLink>.

<Note>

Though we strongly recommend uploading source maps as part of your build process, for browser applications it's also possible to <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/hosting-publicly/">host your source maps publicly</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

Commit message:

ref(js): Add Source Maps wizard snippet to Vue sourcemaps page

src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.vue.mdx, after:

## Uploading Source Maps in a Vue Project

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using the `@sentry/vue` SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

### Using the Sentry Wizard

The easiest and recommended way to configure uploading source maps is by using the Sentry Wizard:

<Include name="sourcemaps-wizard-instructions.mdx" />

If you want to configure source maps upload manually, follow the guide for your bundler or build tool below.

### Manual Setup with Vite

If you are using Vue, chances are good you are using Vite to bundle your project.
You can use the Sentry Vite plugin to automatically create [releases](/product/releases/) and upload source maps to Sentry when bundling your app.

#### Installation

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/vite-plugin --dev
```

#### Configuration

Learn more about configuring the plugin in our [Sentry Vite Plugin documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sentry/vite-plugin).

To upload source maps you have to configure an auth token.
Auth tokens can be passed to the plugin explicitly with the `authToken` option, with a `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` environment variable, or with a `.env.sentry-build-plugin` file in the working directory when building your project.
You likely want to add the auth token as an environment variable to your CI/CD environment.

<OrgAuthTokenNote />

```bash {filename:.env.sentry-build-plugin}
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___
```

Example:

<SignInNote />

```javascript {filename:vite.config.js}
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import vue from "@vitejs/plugin-vue";
import { sentryVitePlugin } from "@sentry/vite-plugin";

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    sourcemap: true, // Source map generation must be turned on
  },
  plugins: [
    vue(),

    // Put the Sentry vite plugin after all other plugins
    sentryVitePlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
});
```

<Note>

The Sentry Vite plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your implementation.

</Note>

### Other Bundlers

In case you are using a bundler other than Vite to build your Vue project, we've compiled a list of guides on how to upload source maps to Sentry for the most popular JavaScript bundlers:

- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/webpack/">Webpack</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/typescript/">
    TypeScript (tsc)
  </PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/rollup/">Rollup</PlatformLink>
- <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/esbuild/">esbuild</PlatformLink>

## Other Tools

If you're not using any of tools above, we assume you already know how to generate source maps with your toolchain and we recommend you upload them using <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/cli/">Sentry CLI</PlatformLink>.

<Note>

Though we strongly recommend uploading source maps as part of your build process, for browser applications it's also possible to <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/hosting-publicly/">host your source maps publicly</PlatformLink>.

</Note>
