src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.svelte.mdx, before:

## Upload Source Maps for a Svelte Project

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using the `@sentry/svelte` SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

This page is a guide on how to create releases and upload source maps to Sentry when bundling your Svelte app.

To generate source maps with your Svelte project, you need to set the source map [compiler options](https://svelte.dev/docs#compile-time-svelte-compile) in your Svelte config:

```JavaScript {filename:svelte.config.js}
import sveltePreprocess from "svelte-preprocess";

const config = {
  compilerOptions: {
    enableSourcemap: true,
  },
  preprocess: sveltePreprocess({
    sourceMap: true,
  }),
};

export default config;
```

If you're using Vite in you Svelte project, you can use Sentry's Vite plugin for convenience:

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/vite-plugin --dev
```

Configure Vite to emit source maps and use the Sentry Vite plugin:

```JavaScript {filename:vite.config.js}
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import { svelte } from "@sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte";
import { sentryVitePlugin } from "@sentry/vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    sourcemap: true, // Source map generation must be turned on
  },
  plugins: [
    svelte(),

    // Put the Sentry vite plugin after all other plugins
    sentryVitePlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

      // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
      // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
});
```

<Note>

The Sentry Vite plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your implementation.

</Note>

### Other Bundlers

If you're using a bundler other than Vite, check out our general guide on how to <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/">upload source maps</PlatformLink>, or refer to your bundler's documentation.

<Note>

By default, if Sentry can't find the uploaded files it needs, it will attempt to download them from the URLs in the stack trace. To disable this, turn off "Enable JavaScript source fetching" in either your organization's "Security & Privacy" settings or your project's general settings.

</Note>

Commit message:

Add sourcemaps wizard instructions to uploading source maps docs

src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.svelte.mdx, after:

## Upload Source Maps for a Svelte Project

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using the `@sentry/svelte` SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

### Using the Sentry Wizard

The easiest way to configure uploading source maps is by using the Sentry Wizard:

<Include name="sourcemaps-wizard-instructions.mdx"/>

If you want to configure source maps upload manually, follow the guide for your bundler or build tool below.

### Manually Configuring Source Maps Upload


To generate source maps with your Svelte project, you need to set the source map [compiler options](https://svelte.dev/docs#compile-time-svelte-compile) in your Svelte config:

```JavaScript {filename:svelte.config.js}
import sveltePreprocess from "svelte-preprocess";

const config = {
  compilerOptions: {
    enableSourcemap: true,
  },
  preprocess: sveltePreprocess({
    sourceMap: true,
  }),
};

export default config;
```

If you're using Vite in you Svelte project, you can use Sentry's Vite plugin for convenience:

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/vite-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/vite-plugin --dev
```

Configure Vite to emit source maps and use the Sentry Vite plugin:

```JavaScript {filename:vite.config.js}
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import { svelte } from "@sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte";
import { sentryVitePlugin } from "@sentry/vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    sourcemap: true, // Source map generation must be turned on
  },
  plugins: [
    svelte(),

    // Put the Sentry vite plugin after all other plugins
    sentryVitePlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

      // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
      // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
});
```

<Note>

The Sentry Vite plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your implementation.

</Note>

### Other Bundlers

If you're using a bundler other than Vite, check out our general guide on how to <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/uploading/">upload source maps</PlatformLink>, or refer to your bundler's documentation.

<Note>

By default, if Sentry can't find the uploaded files it needs, it will attempt to download them from the URLs in the stack trace. To disable this, turn off "Enable JavaScript source fetching" in either your organization's "Security & Privacy" settings or your project's general settings.

</Note>
