src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.angular.mdx, before:

## Uploading Source Maps in an Angular project

Sentry uses [releases](/product/releases/) to match the correct source maps to your events.
This page explains how to generate source maps, set releases, and upload source maps to Sentry either manually or automatically when bundling your Angular app.

### Generating Source Maps

To generate source maps, you need to add the `sourceMap` option to your `angular.json` build configuration:

```json {filename:angular.json}
{
  // ...
  "projects": {
    "my-app": {
      "architect": {
        "build": {
          "configurations": {
            "production": {
              "sourceMap": {
                "scripts": true
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Two Ways to Upload Source Maps

You can either set releases and upload source maps automatically using the Angular CLI, or upload source maps manually using the Sentry-CLI.

- [**Angular CLI and Sentry Webpack Plugin**](./uploading/angular-webpack/) <br/>
  Use the Angular CLI, a custom Angular builder and the Sentry Webpack plugin to set releases and upload source maps automatically when running `ng build`.
- [**Sentry CLI**](./uploading/cli/)<br/>
  Upload source maps manually using the Sentry-CLI.

Take a look at this [guide for further options to upload source maps](./uploading/).

Commit message:

feat(angular): Add guide for uploading source maps with @nx/angular CLI

src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/overview/javascript.angular.mdx, after:

## Uploading Source Maps in an Angular project

Sentry uses [releases](/product/releases/) to match the correct source maps to your events.
This page explains how to generate source maps, set releases, and upload source maps to Sentry either manually or automatically when bundling your Angular app.

### Generating Source Maps

To generate source maps, you need to add the `sourceMap` option to your `angular.json` build configuration:

```json {filename:angular.json}
{
  // ...
  "projects": {
    "my-app": {
      "architect": {
        "build": {
          "configurations": {
            "production": {
              "sourceMap": {
                "scripts": true
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Three Ways to Upload Source Maps

You can either set releases and upload source maps automatically using the Angular CLI, or upload source maps manually using the Sentry-CLI.

- [**Angular CLI and Sentry Webpack Plugin**](./uploading/angular-webpack/) <br/>
  Use the Angular CLI, a custom Angular builder and the Sentry Webpack plugin to set releases and upload source maps automatically when running `ng build`.
- [**Nx Angular CLI and Sentry Webpack Plugin**](./uploading/angular-nx/) <br/>
  If you're using Nx, Use `@nx/angular` CLI and the Sentry Webpack plugin to set releases and upload source maps automatically when running `nx build`.
- [**Sentry CLI**](./uploading/cli/)<br/>
  Upload source maps manually using the Sentry-CLI.

Take a look at this [guide for further options to upload source maps](./uploading/).
