src/docs/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/large-http-payload/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Large HTTP Payload"
sidebar_order: 30
redirect_from:
  - /product/issues/performance-issues/large-http-payload/
description: "Learn more about Large HTTP Payload issues, how to diagnose and fix them."
---

Large HTTP payload issues are created when an http span has an encoded body size that exceeds a threshold.

## Detection Criteria

The detector for this performance issue looks for a single http span that meets the following criteria:

- The HTTP url must not begin with \_next/static/ or \_next/data/
- The HTTP url must not end with an extension (e.g. .js, .css, .png, .jpg, .jpeg, .mp3), unless the extension is .json
- The HTTP span must have an `http.response_content_length` that exceeds 500kb
- The HTTP span duration must exceed 100ms

If Sentry isn't detecting a Large HTTP Payload issue where you expect one, it's probably because the transaction didn't meet one of the above criteria.

## Span Evidence

You can find additional information about your Large HTTP Payload problem by four main aspects in the "Span Evidence" section:

- **Transaction name**
- **Large HTTP Payload Span:** The large HTTP span, usually containing the asset url.
- **Payload Size:** The size of the payload in bytes.

![Large HTTP payload span evidence](span-evidence.png)

View it by going to the **Issues** page in Sentry, selecting your project, clicking on the Large HTTP Payload issue you want to examine, then scrolling down to the "Span Evidence" section in the "Details" tab.

## Fixing Large HTTP Payload Issues

The reasons for getting consecutive Large HTTP Payload issues vary, but here are some suggestions to help you resolve them:

- If you have control over the backend, check if you're sending more data than you need or if the data can be processed further before being sent to the client.
- If all the endpoint data is needed, consider methods such as pagination to split up data across views.
- Check if any changes were made to your serializer that may have resulted in a larger body size than necessary.

Commit message:

Add SDK version required for span data

src/docs/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/large-http-payload/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Large HTTP Payload"
sidebar_order: 30
redirect_from:
  - /product/issues/performance-issues/large-http-payload/
description: "Learn more about Large HTTP Payload issues, how to diagnose and fix them."
---

Large HTTP payload issues are created when an http span has an encoded body size that exceeds a threshold.

## Detection Criteria

The detector for this performance issue looks for a single http span that meets the following criteria:

- The HTTP url must not begin with \_next/static/ or \_next/data/
- The HTTP url must not end with an extension (e.g. .js, .css, .png, .jpg, .jpeg, .mp3), unless the extension is .json
- The HTTP span must have an `http.response_content_length` (added by the `@sentry/browser` SDK, version `7.53.0`) that exceeds 500kb
- The HTTP span duration must exceed 100ms

If Sentry isn't detecting a Large HTTP Payload issue where you expect one, it's probably because the transaction didn't meet one of the above criteria.

## Span Evidence

You can find additional information about your Large HTTP Payload problem by four main aspects in the "Span Evidence" section:

- **Transaction name**
- **Large HTTP Payload Span:** The large HTTP span, usually containing the asset url.
- **Payload Size:** The size of the payload in bytes.

![Large HTTP payload span evidence](span-evidence.png)

View it by going to the **Issues** page in Sentry, selecting your project, clicking on the Large HTTP Payload issue you want to examine, then scrolling down to the "Span Evidence" section in the "Details" tab.

## Fixing Large HTTP Payload Issues

The reasons for getting consecutive Large HTTP Payload issues vary, but here are some suggestions to help you resolve them:

- If you have control over the backend, check if you're sending more data than you need or if the data can be processed further before being sent to the client.
- If all the endpoint data is needed, consider methods such as pagination to split up data across views.
- Check if any changes were made to your serializer that may have resulted in a larger body size than necessary.
