src/platforms/common/configuration/filtering.mdx, before:

---
title: Filtering
sidebar_order: 60
description: "Learn more about how to configure your SDK to filter events reported to Sentry."
notSupported:
  - perl
  - kotlin-multiplatform
---

When you add Sentry to your app, you get a lot of valuable information about errors and performance. And lots of information is good -- as long as it's the right information, at a reasonable volume.

The Sentry SDKs have several configuration options to help you filter out events.

We also offer [Inbound Filters](/product/data-management-settings/filtering/) to filter events in sentry.io. We recommend filtering at the client level though, because it removes the overhead of sending events you don't actually want. Learn more about the [fields available in an event](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/).

## Filtering Error Events

Configure your SDK to filter error events by using the <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> callback method and configuring, enabling, or disabling integrations.

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" />

All Sentry SDKs support the <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> callback method. <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> is called immediately before the event is sent to the server, so it’s the final place where you can edit its data. It receives the event object as a parameter, so you can use that to modify the event’s data or drop it completely (by returning `null`) based on custom logic and the data available on the event.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send" />

Note also that breadcrumbs can be filtered, as discussed in [our Breadcrumbs documentation](/product/error-monitoring/breadcrumbs/).

<PlatformSection notSupported={["apple", "dotnet", "elixir", "rust"]}>

#### Event Hints

The <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> callback is passed both the `event` and a second argument, `hint`, that holds one or more hints.

Typically a `hint` holds the original exception so that additional data can be extracted or grouping is affected. In this example, the fingerprint is forced to a common value if an exception of a certain type has been caught:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send-hint" />

When the SDK creates an event or breadcrumb for transmission, that transmission is typically created from some sort of source object. For instance, an error event is typically created from a log record or exception instance. For better customization, SDKs send these objects to certain callbacks (<PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" />, <PlatformIdentifier name="before-breadcrumb" /> or the event processor system in the SDK).

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection notSupported={["native", "apple", "dotnet"]}>

### Using Hints

Hints are available in two places:

1. <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> / <PlatformIdentifier name="before-breadcrumb" />
2. `eventProcessors`

Event and breadcrumb `hints` are objects containing various information used to put together an event or a breadcrumb. Typically `hints` hold the original exception so that additional data can be extracted or grouping can be affected.

For events, hints contain properties such as `event_id`, `originalException`, `syntheticException` (used internally to generate cleaner stack trace), and any other arbitrary `data` that you attach.

For breadcrumbs, the use of `hints` is implementation dependent. For XHR requests, the hint contains the xhr object itself; for user interactions the hint contains the DOM element and event name and so forth.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send-fingerprint">

In this example, the fingerprint is forced to a common value if an exception of a certain type has been caught:

</PlatformContent>

#### Hints for Events

`originalException`

: The original exception that caused the Sentry SDK to create the event. This is useful for changing how the Sentry SDK groups events or to extract additional information.

`syntheticException`

: When a string or a non-error object is raised, Sentry creates a synthetic exception so you can get a basic stack trace. This exception is stored here for further data extraction.

#### Hints for Breadcrumbs

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/breadcrumb-hints" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "node"]} >

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-errors" />

You can use the <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-errors" /> option to filter out errors that match a certain pattern. This option receives a list of strings and regular expressions to match against the error message.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/ignore-errors" />
</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["android", "javascript", "java", "python"]} >

### Decluttering Sentry

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/decluttering" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["node", "javascript", "python", "php", "dotnet", "java", "ruby", "go", "react-native", "android", "dart"]} notSupported={["javascript.cordova"]}>

## Filtering Transaction Events

To prevent certain transactions from being reported to Sentry, use the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> or <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send-transaction" /> configuration option, which allows you to provide a function to evaluate the current transaction and drop it if it's not one you want.

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />

**Note:** The <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> and <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> config options are mutually exclusive. If you define a <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> to filter out certain transactions, you must also handle the case of non-filtered transactions by returning the rate at which you'd like them sampled.

In its simplest form, used just for filtering the transaction, it looks like this:

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/traces-sampler-as-filter" />

It also allows you to sample different transactions at different rates.

If the transaction currently being processed has a parent transaction (from an upstream service calling this service), the parent (upstream) sampling decision will always be included in the sampling context data, so that your <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> can choose whether and when to inherit that decision. (In most cases, inheritance is the right choice, to avoid breaking distributed traces.) See <PlatformLink to="/configuration/sampling/#inheritance">Inheriting the parent sampling decision</PlatformLink> to learn more.

Learn more about <PlatformLink to="/configuration/sampling/">configuring the sample rate</PlatformLink>.

<PlatformSection supported={["node", "javascript", "php", "go", "python", "java", "ruby"]}>

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send-transaction" />

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send-transaction" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "node"]} >

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-transactions" />

You can use the <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-transactions" /> option to filter out transactions that match a certain pattern. This option receives a list of strings and regular expressions to match against the transaction name.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/ignore-transactions" />
</PlatformSection>

</PlatformSection>

Commit message:

Added description of what a broken trace means

src/platforms/common/configuration/filtering.mdx, after:

---
title: Filtering
sidebar_order: 60
description: "Learn more about how to configure your SDK to filter events reported to Sentry."
notSupported:
  - perl
  - kotlin-multiplatform
---

When you add Sentry to your app, you get a lot of valuable information about errors and performance. And lots of information is good -- as long as it's the right information, at a reasonable volume.

The Sentry SDKs have several configuration options to help you filter out events.

We also offer [Inbound Filters](/product/data-management-settings/filtering/) to filter events in sentry.io. We recommend filtering at the client level though, because it removes the overhead of sending events you don't actually want. Learn more about the [fields available in an event](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/).

## Filtering Error Events

Configure your SDK to filter error events by using the <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> callback method and configuring, enabling, or disabling integrations.

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" />

All Sentry SDKs support the <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> callback method. <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> is called immediately before the event is sent to the server, so it’s the final place where you can edit its data. It receives the event object as a parameter, so you can use that to modify the event’s data or drop it completely (by returning `null`) based on custom logic and the data available on the event.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send" />

Note also that breadcrumbs can be filtered, as discussed in [our Breadcrumbs documentation](/product/error-monitoring/breadcrumbs/).

<PlatformSection notSupported={["apple", "dotnet", "elixir", "rust"]}>

#### Event Hints

The <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> callback is passed both the `event` and a second argument, `hint`, that holds one or more hints.

Typically a `hint` holds the original exception so that additional data can be extracted or grouping is affected. In this example, the fingerprint is forced to a common value if an exception of a certain type has been caught:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send-hint" />

When the SDK creates an event or breadcrumb for transmission, that transmission is typically created from some sort of source object. For instance, an error event is typically created from a log record or exception instance. For better customization, SDKs send these objects to certain callbacks (<PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" />, <PlatformIdentifier name="before-breadcrumb" /> or the event processor system in the SDK).

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection notSupported={["native", "apple", "dotnet"]}>

### Using Hints

Hints are available in two places:

1. <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send" /> / <PlatformIdentifier name="before-breadcrumb" />
2. `eventProcessors`

Event and breadcrumb `hints` are objects containing various information used to put together an event or a breadcrumb. Typically `hints` hold the original exception so that additional data can be extracted or grouping can be affected.

For events, hints contain properties such as `event_id`, `originalException`, `syntheticException` (used internally to generate cleaner stack trace), and any other arbitrary `data` that you attach.

For breadcrumbs, the use of `hints` is implementation dependent. For XHR requests, the hint contains the xhr object itself; for user interactions the hint contains the DOM element and event name and so forth.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send-fingerprint">

In this example, the fingerprint is forced to a common value if an exception of a certain type has been caught:

</PlatformContent>

#### Hints for Events

`originalException`

: The original exception that caused the Sentry SDK to create the event. This is useful for changing how the Sentry SDK groups events or to extract additional information.

`syntheticException`

: When a string or a non-error object is raised, Sentry creates a synthetic exception so you can get a basic stack trace. This exception is stored here for further data extraction.

#### Hints for Breadcrumbs

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/breadcrumb-hints" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "node"]} >

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-errors" />

You can use the <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-errors" /> option to filter out errors that match a certain pattern. This option receives a list of strings and regular expressions to match against the error message.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/ignore-errors" />
</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["android", "javascript", "java", "python"]} >

### Decluttering Sentry

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/decluttering" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["node", "javascript", "python", "php", "dotnet", "java", "ruby", "go", "react-native", "android", "dart"]} notSupported={["javascript.cordova"]}>

## Filtering Transaction Events

To prevent certain transactions from being reported to Sentry, use the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> or <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send-transaction" /> configuration option, which allows you to provide a function to evaluate the current transaction and drop it if it's not one you want.

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />

**Note:** The <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> and <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> config options are mutually exclusive. If you define a <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> to filter out certain transactions, you must also handle the case of non-filtered transactions by returning the rate at which you'd like them sampled.

In its simplest form, used just for filtering the transaction, it looks like this:

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/traces-sampler-as-filter" />

It also allows you to sample different transactions at different rates.

If the transaction currently being processed has a parent transaction (from an upstream service calling this service), the parent (upstream) sampling decision will always be included in the sampling context data, so that your <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> can choose whether and when to inherit that decision. In most cases, inheritance is the right choice, to avoid breaking distributed traces. Resulting in not all your services showing up in the trace. See <PlatformLink to="/configuration/sampling/#inheritance">Inheriting the parent sampling decision</PlatformLink> to learn more.

Learn more about <PlatformLink to="/configuration/sampling/">configuring the sample rate</PlatformLink>.

<PlatformSection supported={["node", "javascript", "php", "go", "python", "java", "ruby"]}>

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="before-send-transaction" />

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send-transaction" />

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript", "node"]} >

### Using <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-transactions" />

You can use the <PlatformIdentifier name="ignore-transactions" /> option to filter out transactions that match a certain pattern. This option receives a list of strings and regular expressions to match against the transaction name.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/ignore-transactions" />
</PlatformSection>

</PlatformSection>
