src/platforms/common/configuration/sampling.mdx, before:

---
title: Sampling
sidebar_title: Sampling
sidebar_order: 50
description: "Learn how to configure the volume of error and transaction events sent to Sentry."
supported:
  - javascript
  - node
  - python
  - php
  - java
  - ruby
  - go
  - react-native
  - android
  - dotnet
  - apple
  - javascript.cordova
  - unity
  - dart
  - flutter
  - rust
  - native
redirect_from:
  - /performance/sampling/
---

Adding Sentry to your app gives you a great deal of very valuable information about errors and performance you wouldn't otherwise get. And lots of information is good -- as long as it's the right information, at a reasonable volume.

## Sampling Error Events

To send a representative sample of your errors to Sentry, set the <PlatformIdentifier name="sample-rate" /> option in your SDK configuration to a number between `0` (0% of errors sent) and `1` (100% of errors sent). This is a static rate, which will apply equally to all errors. For example, to sample 25% of your errors:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/sample-rate" />

<Note>

Changing the error sample rate requires re-deployment. In addition, setting an SDK sample rate limits visibility into the source of events. Setting a rate limit for your project (which only drops events when volume is high) may better suit your needs.

</Note>

<PlatformSection notSupported={["elixir", "javascript.electron", "perl"]}>

## Sampling Transaction Events

We recommend sampling your transactions for two reasons:

1. Capturing a single trace involves minimal overhead, but capturing traces for _every_ page load or _every_ API request may add an undesirable load to your system.
2. Enabling sampling allows you to better manage the number of events sent to Sentry, so you can tailor your volume to your organization's needs.

Choose a sampling rate with the goal of finding a balance between performance and volume concerns with data accuracy. You don't want to collect _too_ much data, but you want to collect sufficient data from which to draw meaningful conclusions. If you’re not sure what rate to choose, start with a low value and gradually increase it as you learn more about your traffic patterns and volume.

## Configuring the Transaction Sample Rate

The Sentry SDKs have two configuration options to control the volume of transactions sent to Sentry, allowing you to take a representative sample:

1. Uniform sample rate (<PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />):

   - Provides an even cross-section of transactions, no matter where in your app or under what circumstances they occur.
   - Uses default [inheritance](#inheritance) and [precedence](#precedence) behavior

2. Sampling function (<PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />) which:
   - Samples different transactions at different rates
   - <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/">Filters</PlatformLink> out some
     transactions entirely
   - Modifies default [precedence](#precedence) and [inheritance](#inheritance) behavior

<PlatformSection supported={["rust", "native"]}>

<Alert level="info">

Sampling functions (<PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />) are currently not supported by this platform.

</Alert>

</PlatformSection>

### Setting a Uniform Sample Rate

<!-- TODO: once PlatformInline is a thing, the text from this include can move back here (the only difference is `Sentry`.init()`) -->

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/uniform-sample-rate" />

<PlatformSection notSupported={["rust", "native"]}>

### Setting a Sampling Function

<!-- TODO: Once PlatformInline is a thing, this sampling function intro can be turned back into real text -->

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/sampling-function-intro" />

## Sampling Context Data

### Default Sampling Context Data

The information contained in the <PlatformIdentifier name="sampling-context" /> object passed to the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> when a transaction is created varies by platform and integration.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/default-sampling-context" />

### Custom Sampling Context Data

When using custom instrumentation to create a transaction, you can add data to the <PlatformIdentifier name="sampling-context" /> by passing it as an optional second argument to <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" />. This is useful if there's data to which you want the sampler to have access but which you don't want to attach to the transaction as `tags` or `data`, such as information that's sensitive or that’s too large to send with the transaction. For example:

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/custom-sampling-context" />

</PlatformSection>

## Inheritance

Whatever a transaction's sampling decision, that decision will be passed to its child spans and from there to any transactions they subsequently cause in other services.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript.cordova", "php"]}>

(See <PlatformLink to="/performance/connect-services/">Connecting Services</PlatformLink> for more about how that propagation is done.)

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["php.laravel"]}>

(See [Connecting Services](/platforms/php/guides/laravel/performance/connect-services/) for more about how that propagation is done.)

</PlatformSection>

If the transaction currently being created is one of those subsequent transactions (in other words, if it has a parent transaction), the upstream (parent) sampling decision will always be included in the sampling context data, so that your <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> can choose whether and when to inherit that decision. (In most cases, inheritance is the right choice, to avoid partial traces.)

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/always-inherit-sampling-decision">

In some SDKs, for convenience, the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> function can return a boolean, so that a parent's decision can be returned directly if that's the desired behavior.

</PlatformContent>

If you're using a <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> rather than a <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />, the decision will always be inherited.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["rust", "native"]}>

## Forcing a Sampling Decision

If you know at transaction creation time whether or not you want the transaction sent to Sentry, you also have the option of passing a sampling decision directly to the transaction constructor (note, not in the <PlatformIdentifier name="custom-sampling-context" /> object). If you do that, the transaction won't be subject to the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />, nor will <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> be run, so you can count on the decision that's passed not to be overwritten.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/force-sampling-decision" />

</PlatformSection>

## Precedence

There are multiple ways for a transaction to end up with a sampling decision.

- Random sampling according to a static sample rate set in <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />
- Random sampling according to a sample function rate returned by <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />
- Absolute decision (100% chance or 0% chance) returned by <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />
- If the transaction has a parent, inheriting its parent's sampling decision
- Absolute decision passed to <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" />

When there's the potential for more than one of these to come into play, the following precedence rules apply:

1. If a sampling decision is passed to <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" />, that decision will be used, overriding everything else.
1. If <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> is defined, its decision will be used. It can choose to keep or ignore any parent sampling decision, or use the sampling context data to make its own decision or choose a sample rate for the transaction.
1. If <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> is not defined, but there's a parent sampling decision, the parent sampling decision will be used.
1. If <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> is not defined and there's no parent sampling decision, <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> will be used.

<PlatformSection supported={["rust", "native"]}>

<Alert level="info">

Forcing a sampling decision by passing it into <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" /> is currently not supported by this platform.

</Alert>

</PlatformSection>

</PlatformSection>

Commit message:

Make it explicit, that if the parent sample decision is overriden, then distributed traces break

src/platforms/common/configuration/sampling.mdx, after:

---
title: Sampling
sidebar_title: Sampling
sidebar_order: 50
description: "Learn how to configure the volume of error and transaction events sent to Sentry."
supported:
  - javascript
  - node
  - python
  - php
  - java
  - ruby
  - go
  - react-native
  - android
  - dotnet
  - apple
  - javascript.cordova
  - unity
  - dart
  - flutter
  - rust
  - native
redirect_from:
  - /performance/sampling/
---

Adding Sentry to your app gives you a great deal of very valuable information about errors and performance you wouldn't otherwise get. And lots of information is good -- as long as it's the right information, at a reasonable volume.

## Sampling Error Events

To send a representative sample of your errors to Sentry, set the <PlatformIdentifier name="sample-rate" /> option in your SDK configuration to a number between `0` (0% of errors sent) and `1` (100% of errors sent). This is a static rate, which will apply equally to all errors. For example, to sample 25% of your errors:

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/sample-rate" />

<Note>

Changing the error sample rate requires re-deployment. In addition, setting an SDK sample rate limits visibility into the source of events. Setting a rate limit for your project (which only drops events when volume is high) may better suit your needs.

</Note>

<PlatformSection notSupported={["elixir", "javascript.electron", "perl"]}>

## Sampling Transaction Events

We recommend sampling your transactions for two reasons:

1. Capturing a single trace involves minimal overhead, but capturing traces for _every_ page load or _every_ API request may add an undesirable load to your system.
2. Enabling sampling allows you to better manage the number of events sent to Sentry, so you can tailor your volume to your organization's needs.

Choose a sampling rate with the goal of finding a balance between performance and volume concerns with data accuracy. You don't want to collect _too_ much data, but you want to collect sufficient data from which to draw meaningful conclusions. If you’re not sure what rate to choose, start with a low value and gradually increase it as you learn more about your traffic patterns and volume.

## Configuring the Transaction Sample Rate

The Sentry SDKs have two configuration options to control the volume of transactions sent to Sentry, allowing you to take a representative sample:

1. Uniform sample rate (<PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />):

   - Provides an even cross-section of transactions, no matter where in your app or under what circumstances they occur.
   - Uses default [inheritance](#inheritance) and [precedence](#precedence) behavior

2. Sampling function (<PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />) which:
   - Samples different transactions at different rates
   - <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/">Filters</PlatformLink> out some
     transactions entirely
   - Modifies default [precedence](#precedence) and [inheritance](#inheritance) behavior

<PlatformSection supported={["rust", "native"]}>

<Alert level="info">

Sampling functions (<PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />) are currently not supported by this platform.

</Alert>

</PlatformSection>

### Setting a Uniform Sample Rate

<!-- TODO: once PlatformInline is a thing, the text from this include can move back here (the only difference is `Sentry`.init()`) -->

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/uniform-sample-rate" />

<PlatformSection notSupported={["rust", "native"]}>

### Setting a Sampling Function

<!-- TODO: Once PlatformInline is a thing, this sampling function intro can be turned back into real text -->

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/sampling-function-intro" />

## Sampling Context Data

### Default Sampling Context Data

The information contained in the <PlatformIdentifier name="sampling-context" /> object passed to the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> when a transaction is created varies by platform and integration.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/default-sampling-context" />

### Custom Sampling Context Data

When using custom instrumentation to create a transaction, you can add data to the <PlatformIdentifier name="sampling-context" /> by passing it as an optional second argument to <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" />. This is useful if there's data to which you want the sampler to have access but which you don't want to attach to the transaction as `tags` or `data`, such as information that's sensitive or that’s too large to send with the transaction. For example:

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/custom-sampling-context" />

</PlatformSection>

## Inheritance

Whatever a transaction's sampling decision, that decision will be passed to its child spans and from there to any transactions they subsequently cause in other services.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript.cordova", "php"]}>

(See <PlatformLink to="/performance/connect-services/">Connecting Services</PlatformLink> for more about how that propagation is done.)

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["php.laravel"]}>

(See [Connecting Services](/platforms/php/guides/laravel/performance/connect-services/) for more about how that propagation is done.)

</PlatformSection>

If the transaction currently being created is one of those subsequent transactions (in other words, if it has a parent transaction), the upstream (parent) sampling decision will always be included in the sampling context data, so that your <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> can choose whether and when to inherit that decision. (In most cases, inheritance is the right choice, to avoid breaking distributed traces.)

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/always-inherit-sampling-decision">

In some SDKs, for convenience, the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> function can return a boolean, so that a parent's decision can be returned directly if that's the desired behavior.

</PlatformContent>

If you're using a <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> rather than a <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />, the decision will always be inherited.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["rust", "native"]}>

## Forcing a Sampling Decision

If you know at transaction creation time whether or not you want the transaction sent to Sentry, you also have the option of passing a sampling decision directly to the transaction constructor (note, not in the <PlatformIdentifier name="custom-sampling-context" /> object). If you do that, the transaction won't be subject to the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />, nor will <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> be run, so you can count on the decision that's passed not to be overwritten.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/force-sampling-decision" />

</PlatformSection>

## Precedence

There are multiple ways for a transaction to end up with a sampling decision.

- Random sampling according to a static sample rate set in <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />
- Random sampling according to a sample function rate returned by <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />
- Absolute decision (100% chance or 0% chance) returned by <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />
- If the transaction has a parent, inheriting its parent's sampling decision
- Absolute decision passed to <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" />

When there's the potential for more than one of these to come into play, the following precedence rules apply:

1. If a sampling decision is passed to <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" />, that decision will be used, overriding everything else.
1. If <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> is defined, its decision will be used. It can choose to keep or ignore any parent sampling decision, or use the sampling context data to make its own decision or choose a sample rate for the transaction. (We adive against overriding the parent sampling decision, because it will break distirbuted traces.)
1. If <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> is not defined, but there's a parent sampling decision, the parent sampling decision will be used.
1. If <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> is not defined and there's no parent sampling decision, <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> will be used.

<PlatformSection supported={["rust", "native"]}>

<Alert level="info">

Forcing a sampling decision by passing it into <PlatformIdentifier name="start-transaction" /> is currently not supported by this platform.

</Alert>

</PlatformSection>

</PlatformSection>
