src/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
description: "Learn about Sentry's .NET integration with Microsoft.Extensions.Logging."
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/dotnet/microsoft-extensions-logging/
---

Sentry has an integration with `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` through the [Sentry.Extensions.Logging NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.Extensions.Logging).

## Installation

Add the Sentry dependency:

```powershell {tabTitle:Package Manager}
Install-Package Sentry.Extensions.Logging -Version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.extensions.logging') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:.NET Core CLI}
dotnet add package Sentry.Extensions.Logging -v {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.extensions.logging') }}
```

This package extends `Sentry` main SDK. That means that besides the logging related features, through this package you'll also get access to all API and features available in the main `Sentry` SDK.

<Note>

Messages logged from assemblies with the name starting with `Sentry` will not generate events.

</Note>

## Features

- Store log messages as breadcrumbs
- Send events to sentry

Two separate settings define the minimum log level to keep the log entry as a `Breadcrumb` and to send an `Event` to Sentry. The events include any stored breadcrumb on that [scope](enriching-events/scopes/).

By default, any message with log level `Information` or higher will be kept as a `Breadcrumb`.

The default value to report a log entry as an event to Sentry is `Error`.

This means that out of the box, any `LogError` call will create an `Event` which will include all log messages of level `Information`, `Warning` and also `Error` and `Critical`.

## Configuration

There are two ways to add this integration into your project. In both cases it means calling an extension method. The places where it's available are:

- `ILoggingBuilder`
- `ILoggerFactory`

The `ILoggingBuilder` extension is useful when using a `WebHostBuilder` or a `HostBuilder`, also known as _Generic host_. This extension method is used by the ASP.NET Core integration under the hood to automatically.

The extension to `ILoggerFactory` is a convenient way when only the `LoggerFactory` is being used, without any framework integration.

In both cases the method call is:

**AddSentry()**

### Example configuration

#### Through `ILoggingBuilder`

```csharp
public static Task Main()
    => new HostBuilder()
        .ConfigureHostConfiguration(c =>
        {
            c.SetBasePath(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory());
            c.AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: false);
        })
        .ConfigureLogging((c, l) =>
        {
            l.AddConfiguration(c.Configuration);
            // Adding Sentry integration to Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
            l.AddSentry();
        })
        .Build();
```

In this example, a _generic host_ is being built and the MEL integration with Sentry added through `ConfigureLogging`. The example also demonstrates how to bind the `appsettings.json` configuration to make the values available to the Sentry integration.

With this approach, options like `Dsn`, `SendDefaultPii`, `MinimumBreadcrumbLevel`, to name a few, can be set in `appsettings.json`.

Example using `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Debug"
    }
  },
  "Sentry": {
    "Dsn": "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    "MinimumBreadcrumbLevel": "Debug",
    "MinimumEventLevel": "Warning",
    "MaxBreadcrumbs": 50
  }
}
```

Above we set the application wide minimum log level to `Debug`. Sentry specific settings are set under the `Sentry` property. Options are documented below.

#### Through `ILoggerFactory`

```csharp
using (var loggerFactory = new LoggerFactory()
            .AddConsole(LogLevel.Trace)
            .AddSentry(o => o.Dsn = "___PUBLIC_DSN___"))
{
    var logger = loggerFactory.CreateLogger<Program>();
}
```

This approach doesn't include any of the framework's configuration system. Since the DSN is being provided via parameter, the SDK will be initialized.
More settings can be passed via the callback configuring the `SentryOptions`.

## Options and Initialization

In cases where `AddSentry` is called without arguments, it's worth noting that an overload exists where `SentryOptions` can be configured just like if `SentrySdk.Init` had been called.

<Note>

The SDK needs to be initialized only once. If the `DSN` is made available to this integration, by default it **will** initialize the SDK. If you do not wish to initialize the SDK via this configuration, set the `InitializeSdk` flag to **false**. Not providing a DSN or leaving it as an _empty string_ will disable the SDK.

</Note>

For example:

```csharp
using (var loggerFactory = new LoggerFactory()
            .AddSentry(o => o.InitializeSdk = false))
{ }
```

### Options

#### MinimumBreadcrumbLevel

A `LogLevel` which indicates the minimum level a log message has to be included as a breadcrumb. By default this value is `Information`.

#### MinimumEventLevel

A `LogLevel` which indicates the minimum level a log message has to be sent to Sentry as an event. By default this value is `Error`.

#### InitializeSdk

Whether or not this integration should initialize the SDK. If you intend to call `SentrySdk.Init` yourself, you should set this flag to `false`.

#### Filters

A list of filters which are invoked before processing any log message. This allows you to inspect the details of the log entry before they become a `Breadcrumb` or an `Event` with full access to the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` data.

### Samples

- A [simple example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.ME.Logging) using simply the `LoggerFactory`.
- An [example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.GenericHost) using the _generic host_.

Commit message:

Azure functions and extensions logger (#7000)
* Document TagFilters

* Azure Functions isolated worker SDK

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Liza Mock <lizka920@gmail.com>

* Update index.mdx

Remove unnecessary asp.net core verbage

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Matt Johnson-Pint <mattjohnsonpint@gmail.com>

* Add a tag filter example

* Swap configuration samples order

* Update src/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/index.mdx

* Update src/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/index.mdx

* lint

---------

Co-authored-by: Liza Mock <lizka920@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Matt Johnson-Pint <mattjohnsonpint@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Matt Johnson-Pint <matt.johnson-pint@sentry.io>

src/platforms/dotnet/guides/extensions-logging/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
description: "Learn about Sentry's .NET integration with Microsoft.Extensions.Logging."
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/dotnet/microsoft-extensions-logging/
---

Sentry has an integration with `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` through the [Sentry.Extensions.Logging NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Sentry.Extensions.Logging).

## Installation

Add the Sentry dependency:

```powershell {tabTitle:Package Manager}
Install-Package Sentry.Extensions.Logging -Version {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.extensions.logging') }}
```

```shell {tabTitle:.NET Core CLI}
dotnet add package Sentry.Extensions.Logging -v {{@inject packages.version('sentry.dotnet.extensions.logging') }}
```

This package extends `Sentry` main SDK. That means that besides the logging related features, through this package you'll also get access to all API and features available in the main `Sentry` SDK.

<Note>

Messages logged from assemblies with the name starting with `Sentry` will not generate events.

</Note>

## Features

- Store log messages as breadcrumbs
- Send events to sentry

Two separate settings define the minimum log level to keep the log entry as a `Breadcrumb` and to send an `Event` to Sentry. The events include any stored breadcrumb on that [scope](enriching-events/scopes/).

By default, any message with log level `Information` or higher will be kept as a `Breadcrumb`.

The default value to report a log entry as an event to Sentry is `Error`.

This means that out of the box, any `LogError` call will create an `Event` which will include all log messages of level `Information`, `Warning` and also `Error` and `Critical`.

## Configuration

There are two ways to add this integration into your project. In both cases it means calling an extension method. The places where it's available are:

- `ILoggingBuilder`
- `ILoggerFactory`

The `ILoggingBuilder` extension is useful when using a `WebHostBuilder` or a `HostBuilder`, also known as _Generic host_. This extension method is used by the ASP.NET Core integration under the hood to automatically.

The extension to `ILoggerFactory` is a convenient way when only the `LoggerFactory` is being used, without any framework integration.

In both cases the method call is:

**AddSentry()**

### Example configuration

#### Through `ILoggingBuilder`

```csharp
public static Task Main()
    => new HostBuilder()
        .ConfigureHostConfiguration(c =>
        {
            c.SetBasePath(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory());
            c.AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: false);
        })
        .ConfigureLogging((c, l) =>
        {
            l.AddConfiguration(c.Configuration);
            // Adding Sentry integration to Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
            l.AddSentry();
        })
        .Build();
```

In this example, a _generic host_ is being built and the MEL integration with Sentry added through `ConfigureLogging`. The example also demonstrates how to bind the `appsettings.json` configuration to make the values available to the Sentry integration.

With this approach, options like `Dsn`, `SendDefaultPii`, `MinimumBreadcrumbLevel`, to name a few, can be set in `appsettings.json`.

Example using `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "Logging": {
    "LogLevel": {
      "Default": "Debug"
    }
  },
  "Sentry": {
    "Dsn": "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    "MinimumBreadcrumbLevel": "Debug",
    "MinimumEventLevel": "Warning",
    "MaxBreadcrumbs": 50
  }
}
```

Above we set the application wide minimum log level to `Debug`. Sentry specific settings are set under the `Sentry` property. Options are documented below.

#### Through `ILoggerFactory`

```csharp
using (var loggerFactory = new LoggerFactory()
            .AddConsole(LogLevel.Trace)
            .AddSentry(o => o.Dsn = "___PUBLIC_DSN___"))
{
    var logger = loggerFactory.CreateLogger<Program>();
}
```

This approach doesn't include any of the framework's configuration system. Since the DSN is being provided via parameter, the SDK will be initialized.
More settings can be passed via the callback configuring the `SentryOptions`.

## Options and Initialization

In cases where `AddSentry` is called without arguments, it's worth noting that an overload exists where `SentryOptions` can be configured just like if `SentrySdk.Init` had been called.

<Note>

The SDK needs to be initialized only once. If the `DSN` is made available to this integration, by default it **will** initialize the SDK. If you do not wish to initialize the SDK via this configuration, set the `InitializeSdk` flag to **false**. Not providing a DSN or leaving it as an _empty string_ will disable the SDK.

</Note>

For example:

```csharp
using (var loggerFactory = new LoggerFactory()
            .AddSentry(o => o.InitializeSdk = false))
{ }
```

### Options

#### MinimumBreadcrumbLevel

A `LogLevel` which indicates the minimum level a log message has to be included as a breadcrumb. By default this value is `Information`.

#### MinimumEventLevel

A `LogLevel` which indicates the minimum level a log message has to be sent to Sentry as an event. By default this value is `Error`.

#### InitializeSdk

Whether or not this integration should initialize the SDK. If you intend to call `SentrySdk.Init` yourself, you should set this flag to `false`.

#### Filters

A list of filters which are invoked before processing any log message. This allows you to inspect the details of the log entry before they become a `Breadcrumb` or an `Event` with full access to the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` data.

#### TagFilters

A list of filters which are invoked before processing any log message to filter out undesired tags.

For example, to remove all tags starting with `PROC_`, add a tag filter to your `SentryOptions` when initializing the SDK.

```csharp
options.TagFilters.Add("PROC_");
```

### Samples

- A [simple example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.ME.Logging) using simply the `LoggerFactory`.
- An [example](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dotnet/tree/main/samples/Sentry.Samples.GenericHost) using the _generic host_.
