src/platforms/python/guides/serverless/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Serverless
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/serverless/
description: "Learn about using Sentry's Python SDK for a serverless environment."
---

It is recommended to use an integration for your particular serverless environment if available, as those are easier to use and capture more useful information:

- <Link to="/platforms/python/guides/gcp-functions">
    Google Cloud Functions
  </Link>
- <Link to="/platforms/python/guides/aws-lambda">AWS Lambda Functions</Link>

If you use a serverless provider not directly supported by the SDK, you can use this generic integration.

Apply the `serverless_function` decorator to each function that might throw errors:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.serverless import serverless_function

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",

    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    # We recommend adjusting this value in production,
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
)

@serverless_function
def my_function(...): ...
```

Use the generic integration by calling the `serverless_function` decorator.
Decorators wrap a function and modify its behavior. Then, deploy and test the
function. Check out Sentry's [sample
apps](https://github.com/getsentry/examples) for detailed examples.

## Behavior

- Each call of a decorated function will block and wait for current events to be sent before returning. When there are no events to be sent, no delay is added. However, if there are errors, it will delay the return of your serverless function until the events are sent. This is necessary as serverless environments typically reserve the right to kill the runtime/VM when they consider it is unused.
- You can add more context as described [here](enriching-events/context/).
- Request data is attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set `send_default_pii` to `True`.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.

The maximum amount of time to block overall is set by the [`shutdown_timeout` client option](configuration/options/#shutdown-timeout).

You can disable this aspect by decorating with `@serverless_function(flush=False)` instead.

Commit message:

Getting Started: serverless (#7833)
* Getting Started: serverless

* style(lint): Auto commit lint changes

* Update src/platforms/python/guides/serverless/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: getsantry[bot] <66042841+getsantry[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platforms/python/guides/serverless/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Serverless
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/serverless/
description: "Learn about using Sentry's Python SDK for a serverless environment."
---

The Serverless integration adds support for the [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/).

It is recommended to use an integration for your particular serverless environment if available, as those are easier to use and capture more useful information:

- <Link to="/platforms/python/guides/gcp-functions">
    Google Cloud Functions
  </Link>
- <Link to="/platforms/python/guides/aws-lambda">AWS Lambda Functions</Link>

If you use a serverless provider not directly supported by the SDK, you can use this generic integration.

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI:

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk'
```

## Configure

Apply the `serverless_function` decorator to each function that might throw errors:

<SignInNote />

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.serverless import serverless_function

sentry_sdk.init(
    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
)

@serverless_function
def my_function(...): ...
```

Use the generic integration by calling the `serverless_function` decorator.
Decorators wrap a function and modify its behavior. Then, deploy and test the function.

## Verify

Wrap a functions with the `serverless_function` that triggers an error:

```python
@serverless_function
def my_function(...):
    1/0  # raises an error
```

Now deploy your function. When you now run your function an error event will be sent to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).

## Behavior

- Each call of a decorated function will block and wait for current events to be sent before returning. When there are no events to be sent, no delay is added. However, if there are errors, it will delay the return of your serverless function until the events are sent. This is necessary as serverless environments typically reserve the right to kill the runtime/VM when they consider it is unused.
- You can add more context as described [here](enriching-events/context/).
- Request data is attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set `send_default_pii` to `True`.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.

The maximum amount of time to block overall is set by the [`shutdown_timeout` client option](configuration/options/#shutdown-timeout).

You can disable this aspect by decorating with `@serverless_function(flush=False)` instead.
