src/platform-includes/crons/setup/python.celery.mdx, before:

## Celery Beat Auto Discovery

Use the Celery integration to monitor your [Celery periodic tasks](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/periodic-tasks.html) and get notified when a task is missed (or doesn't start when expected), if it fails due to a problem in the runtime (such as an error), or if it fails by exceeding its maximum runtime.

First, set up your Celery beat schedule:

```python
# tasks.py
from celery import Celery
from celery.schedules import crontab


app = Celery('tasks', broker='...')
app.conf.beat_schedule = {
    'set-in-beat-schedule': {
        'task': 'tasks.tell_the_world',
        'schedule': crontab(hour='10', minute='15'),
        'args': ("Some important message!", ),
    },
}
```

Initialize Sentry in the `celeryd_init` or `beat_init` signal. Make sure to set `monitor_beat_tasks=True` in `CeleryIntegration`:

```python
# tasks.py
from celery import signals

import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.celery import CeleryIntegration


#@signals.beat_init.connect
@signals.celeryd_init.connect
def init_sentry(**kwargs):
    sentry_sdk.init(
        dsn='___PUBLIC_DSN___',
        integrations=[CeleryIntegration(monitor_beat_tasks=True)],  # 👈
        environment="local.dev.grace",
        release="v1.0",
    )
```

Once Sentry Crons is set up, tasks in your Celery beat schedule will be auto-discoverable, and telemetry data will be captured when a task is started, when it finishes, and when it fails.

Start your Celery beat and worker services and see your tasks being monitored at [https://sentry.io/crons/](https://sentry.io/crons/).

<Note>

You don't need to create Cron Monitors for your tasks on Sentry.io, we'll do it for you.

</Note>

## Manual Task Monitoring

We provide a lightweight decorator to make monitoring individual tasks easier. To use it, add `@sentry_sdk.monitor` to your Celery task (or any function), then supply a `monitor_slug` of a monitor created previously on Sentry.io. Once this is done, every time the task (or function) is executed, telemetry data will be captured when a task is started, when it finishes, and when it fails.

<Note>

Make sure the Sentry `@sentry_sdk.monitor` decorator is below Celery's `@app.task` decorator.

</Note>

```python
# tasks.py
from celery import Celery, signals

import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.celery import CeleryIntegration


app = Celery('tasks', broker='...')


@signals.celeryd_init.connect
def init_sentry(**kwargs):
    sentry_sdk.init(
        dsn='___PUBLIC_DSN___',
        integrations=[CeleryIntegration()],
        environment="local.dev.grace",
        release="v1.0",
    )


@app.task
@sentry_sdk.monitor(monitor_slug='<monitor-slug>')  # 👈 this is the new line.
def tell_the_world(msg):
    print(msg)
```

Commit message:

Docs for exclude_beat_tasks (#6995)
* Docs for `exclude_beat_tasks`

---------

Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platform-includes/crons/setup/python.celery.mdx, after:

## Celery Beat Auto Discovery

Use the Celery integration to monitor your [Celery periodic tasks](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/userguide/periodic-tasks.html) and get notified when a task is missed (or doesn't start when expected), if it fails due to a problem in the runtime (such as an error), or if it fails by exceeding its maximum runtime.

First, set up your Celery beat schedule:

```python
# tasks.py
from celery import Celery
from celery.schedules import crontab


app = Celery('tasks', broker='...')
app.conf.beat_schedule = {
    'set-in-beat-schedule': {
        'task': 'tasks.tell_the_world',
        'schedule': crontab(hour='10', minute='15'),
        'args': ("Some important message!", ),
    },
}
```

Initialize Sentry in the `celeryd_init` or `beat_init` signal. Make sure to set `monitor_beat_tasks=True` in `CeleryIntegration`:

```python
# tasks.py
from celery import signals

import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.celery import CeleryIntegration


#@signals.beat_init.connect
@signals.celeryd_init.connect
def init_sentry(**kwargs):
    sentry_sdk.init(
        dsn='___PUBLIC_DSN___',
        integrations=[CeleryIntegration(monitor_beat_tasks=True)],  # 👈
        environment="local.dev.grace",
        release="v1.0",
    )
```

Once Sentry Crons is set up, tasks in your Celery beat schedule will be auto-discoverable, and telemetry data will be captured when a task is started, when it finishes, and when it fails.

Start your Celery beat and worker services and see your tasks being monitored at [https://sentry.io/crons/](https://sentry.io/crons/).

<Note>

You don't need to create Cron Monitors for your tasks on Sentry.io, we'll do it for you.

</Note>

### Excluding Celery Beat Tasks from Auto Discovery

You can exclude Celery Beat tasks from being auto-instrumented. To do this, add a list of tasks you want to exclude as option `exclude_beat_tasks` when creating `CeleryIntegration`. The list can contain simple strings with the full task name, as specified in the Celery Beat schedule, or regular expressions to match multiple tasks.

```python
    exclude_beat_tasks = [
        "some-task-a",
        "payment-check-.*",
    ]

    sentry_sdk.init(
        dsn='___PUBLIC_DSN___',
        integrations=[
            CeleryIntegration(
                monitor_beat_tasks=True,
                exclude_beat_tasks=exclude_beat_tasks),
            ],
        environment="local.dev.grace",
        release="v1.0",
    )
```

In this example the task `some-task-a` and all tasks with a name starting with `payment-check-` will be ignored.

For more information, see the documentation for <PlatformLink to="/#options">options on CeleryIntegration</PlatformLink>.

## Manual Task Monitoring

We provide a lightweight decorator to make monitoring individual tasks easier. To use it, add `@sentry_sdk.monitor` to your Celery task (or any function), then supply a `monitor_slug` of a monitor created previously on Sentry.io. Once this is done, every time the task (or function) is executed, telemetry data will be captured when a task is started, when it finishes, and when it fails.

<Note>

Make sure the Sentry `@sentry_sdk.monitor` decorator is below Celery's `@app.task` decorator.

</Note>

```python
# tasks.py
from celery import Celery, signals

import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.celery import CeleryIntegration


app = Celery('tasks', broker='...')


@signals.celeryd_init.connect
def init_sentry(**kwargs):
    sentry_sdk.init(
        dsn='___PUBLIC_DSN___',
        integrations=[CeleryIntegration()],
        environment="local.dev.grace",
        release="v1.0",
    )


@app.task
@sentry_sdk.monitor(monitor_slug='<monitor-slug>')  # 👈 this is the new line.
def tell_the_world(msg):
    print(msg)
```
