src/platforms/rust/index.mdx, before:

---
redirect_from:
  - /clients/rust/
---

On this page, we get you up and running with Sentry's Rust SDK.

<Note>

If you don't already have an account and Sentry project established, head over to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/signup/), then return to this page.

</Note>

Using a framework? Take a look at our specific guides to get started.

<GuideGrid platform="rust" />

## Install

To add Sentry to your Rust project, just add a new dependency to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml {filename:Cargo.toml}
[dependencies]
sentry = "{{ packages.version('sentry.rust') }}"
```

## Configure

The most convenient way to use this library is the `sentry::init` function, which starts a Sentry client with a default set of integrations, and binds it to the current Hub.

The `sentry::init` function returns a guard that, when dropped, will flush Events that were not yet sent to the Sentry service. It has a two second deadline for this, so shutdown of applications might slightly delay as a result. Keeping the guard around or sending events will not work.

```rust {filename:main.rs}
let _guard = sentry::init(("___PUBLIC_DSN___", sentry::ClientOptions {
    release: sentry::release_name!(),
    ..Default::default()
}));
```

**Important:** Note your DSN. The DSN (Data Source Name) tells the SDK where to send events. If you forget it, view Settings -> Projects -> Client Keys (DSN) in sentry.io.

## Verify Setup

The quickest way to verify Sentry in your Rust application is to cause a panic:

```rust {filename:main.rs}
fn main() {
    let _guard = sentry::init(("___PUBLIC_DSN___", sentry::ClientOptions {
        release: sentry::release_name!(),
        ..Default::default()
    }));

    // Sentry will capture this
    panic!("Everything is on fire!");
}
```

## Integrations

_Integrations_ extend the functionality of the SDK for some common frameworks
and libraries.

A list of integrations and their feature flags can be found
[in the integration API docs](https://docs.rs/sentry/0/sentry/integrations/index.html).

## More Information

- [API Docs](https://docs.rs/sentry)
- [Crates.io page](https://crates.io/crates/sentry)
- [Bug Tracker](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-rust/issues)
- [GitHub Project](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-rust)

Commit message:

docs(rust): Add note about debug-images integration quirk (#6929)
* docs(rust): Add note about debug-images integration quirk

* Update src/platforms/rust/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Shana Matthews <shana.l.matthews@gmail.com>

src/platforms/rust/index.mdx, after:

---
redirect_from:
  - /clients/rust/
---

On this page, we get you up and running with Sentry's Rust SDK.

<Note>

If you don't already have an account and Sentry project established, head over to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/signup/), then return to this page.

</Note>

Using a framework? Take a look at our specific guides to get started.

<GuideGrid platform="rust" />

## Install

To add Sentry to your Rust project, just add a new dependency to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml {filename:Cargo.toml}
[dependencies]
sentry = "{{ packages.version('sentry.rust') }}"
```

## Configure

The most convenient way to use this library is the `sentry::init` function, which starts a Sentry client with a default set of integrations, and binds it to the current Hub.

The `sentry::init` function returns a guard that, when dropped, will flush Events that were not yet sent to the Sentry service. It has a two second deadline for this, so shutdown of applications might slightly delay as a result. Keeping the guard around or sending events will not work.

```rust {filename:main.rs}
let _guard = sentry::init(("___PUBLIC_DSN___", sentry::ClientOptions {
    release: sentry::release_name!(),
    ..Default::default()
}));
```

**Important:** Note your DSN. The DSN (Data Source Name) tells the SDK where to send events. If you forget it, view Settings -> Projects -> Client Keys (DSN) in sentry.io.

## Verify Setup

The quickest way to verify Sentry in your Rust application is to cause a panic:

```rust {filename:main.rs}
fn main() {
    let _guard = sentry::init(("___PUBLIC_DSN___", sentry::ClientOptions {
        release: sentry::release_name!(),
        ..Default::default()
    }));

    // Sentry will capture this
    panic!("Everything is on fire!");
}
```

## Integrations

_Integrations_ extend the functionality of the SDK for some common frameworks
and libraries.

A list of integrations and their feature flags can be found
[in the integration API docs](https://docs.rs/sentry/0/sentry/integrations/index.html).

<Note>

If you keep debug information files in the produced binary, rather than strip them down or split them,
do not add the `debug_images` integration and the corresponding `debug-images` feature flag,
as it will collide with the built-in debug file processing.

</Note>

## More Information

- [API Docs](https://docs.rs/sentry)
- [Crates.io page](https://crates.io/crates/sentry)
- [Bug Tracker](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-rust/issues)
- [GitHub Project](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-rust)
