---
title: 'Breakpad Symbol Upload'
---

`sentry-cli` can upload Breakpad symbols generated by the `dump_syms` tool to Sentry to allow symbolication of Minidump crash reports. Breakpad uses a platform independent ASCII format to store debug information. Such files are usually generated for applications using Breakpad, Crashpad or the Electron Framework.

{% capture __alert_content -%}
If possible, upload native debug files, such as [_dSYM files_]({%- link _documentation/learn/cli/dsym.md -%}) or [_ELF symbols_]({%- link _documentation/learn/cli/elf.md -%}) instead of Breakpad symbols. They contain more information and allow for higher quality stack traces. Please refer to the linked resources for more information.
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Hint"
  content=__alert_content
%}

## Basic Upload

Use `upload-dif` to upload Breakpad symbols and specify the `breakpad` type. The command will recurively scan the provided folders or ZIP archives.

{% capture __alert_content -%}
Because debug files belong to projects, you will need to specify the organization and project you are working with. For more information about this refer to [Working with Projects]({%- link _documentation/learn/cli/configuration.md -%}#sentry-cli-working-with-projects).
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Note"
  content=__alert_content
%}

Example:

```bash
$ sentry-cli upload-dif -t breakpad .
```

## Upload Options

There are a few options you can supply for the upload process

`--no-zips`

: By default, sentry-cli will open and search ZIP archives for files. This is especially useful when downloading builds from iTunes Connect. Use this switch to disable if your search paths contain large ZIP archives without debug information files to speed up the search.

`--no-reprocessing`

: This parameter prevents Sentry from triggering reprocessing right away. It can be useful under rare circumstances where you want to upload files in multiple batches and you want to ensure that Sentry does not start reprocessing before some optional dsyms are uploaded. Note though that someone can still in the meantime trigger reprocessing from the UI.
