src/docs/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/azure-devops/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Azure DevOps
sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/integrations/azure-devops/
  - /workflow/integrations/legacy-integrations/azure-devops/
  - /workflow/integrations/global-integrations/azure-devops/
  - /product/integrations/azure-devops/
description: "Learn more about Sentry's Azure DevOps integration and how it can track and resolve bugs faster by using data from your Azure DevOps commits."
---

Track and resolve bugs faster by using data from your Azure DevOps (formerly known as Visual Studio Team Services, VSTS) commits.

## Install

<Note>

To install this integration, Sentry organization owner, manager, or admin permissions and Azure organization owner permissions or being a user in the Project Collections Administrators group are required.

</Note>

1. Navigate to **Settings > Integrations > Azure DevOps** and click "Add Installation".

   ![Install Azure DevOps integration](azure-devops-install.png)

2. An Azure DevOps install window should pop up. Select the Azure DevOps account you'd like to link with Sentry, and press **Submit**.

   ![Configure Azure DevOps](azure-global-installed.png)

Azure DevOps should now be enabled for all projects under your Sentry organization, but you'll need to configure the features below.

## Configure

Use Azure DevOps to [track commits](#commit-tracking) and [issue management](#issue-management).

### Commit Tracking

Commit tracking allows you to hone in on problematic commits. Uncover which commits likely caused an issue, and allow your team to resolve issues by referencing the issue number in a commit message.

For more details, see the full documentation on [commit tracking and releases](/product/releases/setup/).

You’ll also see that the author of the suspect commit will be listed as a suggested assignee for this issue. To assign the issue to the suggested assignee, click on their icon.

### Issue Management

Issue tracking allows you to create Azure DevOps issues from within Sentry, and link Sentry issues to existing Azure DevOps Issues.

<Alert title="Note" level="info">
  <p>
    Manual issue management is available to organizations on Team, Business, and
    Enterprise plans.
  </p>
  <p>
    Automatic issue management is available to organizations that include
    transactions in their Business and Enterprise plans.
  </p>
</Alert>

Issue management can be configured in two ways - automatically or manually.

#### Automatically

To configure issue management automatically, create an [**Issue Alert**](/product/alerts-notifications/issue-alerts/). When selecting the [**action**](/product/alerts/create-alerts/issue-alert-config/#then-conditions-actions), choose **Create a new Azure DevOps work item**.

![Create Azure DevOps work item as alert rule action](azure-ticket-rule.png)

An Azure DevOps work item will be created automatically when the alert has been triggered.

#### Manually

Once you’ve navigated to a specific issue, you’ll find the **Linked Issues** section on the right hand panel. Here, you’ll be able to create or link Azure DevOps issues.

![Link Azure DevOps work item to Sentry issue](azure-global-link-issue.png)

### Issue Sync

Sync comments, assignees, and status updates for issues in Sentry to Azure DevOps, to minimize duplication. When you delegate an issue to an assignee or update a status on Azure DevOps, the updates will also populate in Sentry. When you resolve an issue in Sentry, the issue status will automatically update in Azure DevOps.

<Alert title="Note" level="info">
  Issue sync is available for organizations on the Team, Business, and
  Enterprise plans.
</Alert>

To configure Issue sync, navigate to ** Organization Settings > Integrations**, and click "Configure" next to your Azure DevOps instance. On the following page, you’ll see options of what information you’d like synced between Sentry and Azure DevOps.

![Sync issue status](azure-global-issue-sync.png)

### Resolve in Commit

Once you send commit data, you can start resolving issues by including `fixes <SENTRY-SHORT-ID>` in your commit messages. For example, a commit message might look like:

```
Prevent empty queries on users

Fixes MYAPP-317
```

When Sentry sees this, we’ll automatically annotate the matching issue with reference to the commit, and later, when that commit is part of a release, we’ll mark the issue as resolved. The commit must be associated with a release. Otherwise, if the commit is squashed, Sentry won’t know when the commit has been released, and the issue may never be marked as a regression.

## Troubleshooting

### No accounts during installation

![](azure-add-account-no-accounts.png)

If you reach the account selection page during the Azure Devops installation process (step 4 in the instructions above) and see that there are no accounts available to select, please check the following possibilities:

- Ensure you are logged into the account connected to your Azure DevOps organization.
- Double-check that your account is a Microsoft Account (MSA).
- For single sign-on, see [Azure Active Directory SSO](/product/accounts/sso/azure-sso/).
- If you have multiple accounts in Azure DevOps, open [this link to Azure DevOps](https://aex.dev.azure.com) in another tab, select the correct account, then reinstall.

<Note>
  If reinstallation solves the problem, please upvote [that solution in
  GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/issues/14357), which is where
  we're tracking this improvement.
</Note>

Commit message:

Clarify Azure DevOps installation process (#7115)
* Clarify Azure DevOps installation process

Clarify that the organization needs to allow Third-party application access via Oauth in their Azure Org's settings.

* Update src/docs/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/azure-devops/index.mdx

src/docs/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/azure-devops/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Azure DevOps
sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/integrations/azure-devops/
  - /workflow/integrations/legacy-integrations/azure-devops/
  - /workflow/integrations/global-integrations/azure-devops/
  - /product/integrations/azure-devops/
description: "Learn more about Sentry's Azure DevOps integration and how it can track and resolve bugs faster by using data from your Azure DevOps commits."
---

Track and resolve bugs faster by using data from your Azure DevOps commits. (Azure DevOps was formerly known as Visual Studio Team Services, VSTS.)

## Install

1. To install this integration, you need to have Sentry organization owner, manager, or admin permissions, as well as Azure organization owner permissions, or be a user in the Project Collections Administrators group.

2. Go to your Azure Org's settings to make sure third-party access via OAuth is enabled.

3. In [Sentry.io](https://sentry.sentry.io/settings/organization/), navigate to **Settings > Integrations > Azure DevOps** and click "Add Installation".

   ![Install Azure DevOps integration](azure-devops-install.png)

4. An Azure DevOps install window should pop up. Select the Azure DevOps account you'd like to link with Sentry, and press **Submit**.

   ![Configure Azure DevOps](azure-global-installed.png)

Azure DevOps should now be enabled for all projects under your Sentry organization, but you'll need to configure the features below.

## Configure

Use Azure DevOps to [track commits](#commit-tracking) and [issue management](#issue-management).

### Commit Tracking

Commit tracking allows you to hone in on problematic commits. Uncover which commits likely caused an issue, and allow your team to resolve issues by referencing the issue number in a commit message.

For more details, see the full documentation on [commit tracking and releases](/product/releases/setup/).

You’ll also see that the author of the suspect commit will be listed as a suggested assignee for this issue. To assign the issue to the suggested assignee, click on their icon.

### Issue Management

Issue tracking allows you to create Azure DevOps issues from within Sentry, and link Sentry issues to existing Azure DevOps Issues.

<Alert title="Note" level="info">
  <p>
    Manual issue management is available to organizations on Team, Business, and
    Enterprise plans.
  </p>
  <p>
    Automatic issue management is available to organizations that include
    transactions in their Business and Enterprise plans.
  </p>
</Alert>

Issue management can be configured in two ways - automatically or manually.

#### Automatically

To configure issue management automatically, create an [**Issue Alert**](/product/alerts-notifications/issue-alerts/). When selecting the [**action**](/product/alerts/create-alerts/issue-alert-config/#then-conditions-actions), choose **Create a new Azure DevOps work item**.

![Create Azure DevOps work item as alert rule action](azure-ticket-rule.png)

An Azure DevOps work item will be created automatically when the alert has been triggered.

#### Manually

Once you’ve navigated to a specific issue, you’ll find the **Linked Issues** section on the right hand panel. Here, you’ll be able to create or link Azure DevOps issues.

![Link Azure DevOps work item to Sentry issue](azure-global-link-issue.png)

### Issue Sync

Sync comments, assignees, and status updates for issues in Sentry to Azure DevOps, to minimize duplication. When you delegate an issue to an assignee or update a status on Azure DevOps, the updates will also populate in Sentry. When you resolve an issue in Sentry, the issue status will automatically update in Azure DevOps.

<Alert title="Note" level="info">
  Issue sync is available for organizations on the Team, Business, and
  Enterprise plans.
</Alert>

To configure Issue sync, navigate to ** Organization Settings > Integrations**, and click "Configure" next to your Azure DevOps instance. On the following page, you’ll see options of what information you’d like synced between Sentry and Azure DevOps.

![Sync issue status](azure-global-issue-sync.png)

### Resolve in Commit

Once you send commit data, you can start resolving issues by including `fixes <SENTRY-SHORT-ID>` in your commit messages. For example, a commit message might look like:

```
Prevent empty queries on users

Fixes MYAPP-317
```

When Sentry sees this, we’ll automatically annotate the matching issue with reference to the commit, and later, when that commit is part of a release, we’ll mark the issue as resolved. The commit must be associated with a release. Otherwise, if the commit is squashed, Sentry won’t know when the commit has been released, and the issue may never be marked as a regression.

## Troubleshooting

### No accounts during installation

![](azure-add-account-no-accounts.png)

If you reach the account selection page during the Azure Devops installation process (step 4 in the instructions above) and see that there are no accounts available to select, please check the following possibilities:

- Ensure you are logged into the account connected to your Azure DevOps organization.
- Double-check that your account is a Microsoft Account (MSA).
- For single sign-on, see [Azure Active Directory SSO](/product/accounts/sso/azure-sso/).
- If you have multiple accounts in Azure DevOps, open [this link to Azure DevOps](https://aex.dev.azure.com) in another tab, select the correct account, then reinstall.

<Note>
  If reinstallation solves the problem, please upvote [that solution in
  GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/issues/14357), which is where
  we're tracking this improvement.
</Note>
