src/platforms/common/data-management/debug-files/upload/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Uploading Files
sidebar_order: 3
description: "Learn about uploading debug information files to Sentry."
---

<PlatformSection supported={["unity"]}>
<Note>

The Sentry SDK for Unity automatically uploads debug files at build time. That means you don't need to use `sentry-cli` directly.
You can find more information about this in the [Unity native support documentation](/platforms/unity/native-support/).

</Note>
</PlatformSection>

The most straightforward way to provide Sentry with debug information file is
to upload them using `sentry-cli`. Depending on your workflow, you may want to
upload as part of your build pipeline or when deploying and publishing your
application:

![](debug-files-workflow.png)

<PlatformSection supported={["dotnet"]}>
<Note>

Depending on application type, target platform, and build configuration, the
Sentry support for .NET may require uploading debug files in order to show a
complete stack trace including file names and line numbers. This is especially
true for mobile apps targeting Android or iOS, such as those developed with
.NET MAUI.

To make this easier, the `Sentry` NuGet package (as of verison 3.26.1) includes
the Sentry CLI as a bundled tool, and will automatically invoke it when building
your project in `Release` configuration.

The remaining information on this page describes invoking the Sentry CLI manually.

</Note>
</PlatformSection>

<PlatformContent includePath="upload-dif">

Files can be uploaded using the `upload-dif` command. This command will scan a
given folder recursively for files and upload them to Sentry:

</PlatformContent>

For all available options and more information refer to [_Uploading Debug
Information_](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files).

Debug files should be uploaded before deploying or releasing your
application so that crash reports can be processed. For manual testing, use the
`sentry-cli upload-dif --wait` before sending the first native crash or error
event.

If you upload a file that was previously reported as missing by Sentry in a crash
report, it may take up to one hour until Sentry starts using this file for new
crash reports. Existing events and issues are not processed again.

In Sentry, your uploaded files are associated with projects. You can view and
manage uploads at **Project Settings > Debug Files**. This screen displays the
most important properties of debug files:

1. The debug identifier. There may be multiple entries sharing the same
   identifier, if debug information is split across multiple files.
2. The name of the debug file. Sentry uses the name on the file system when
   uploading the file using `sentry-cli`.
3. The architecture, and type of the file. This can be used to distinguish files
   into executables and debug companions if their debug identifiers and names
   match.
4. The debug information available in these files. This can include `unwind`,
   `debug`, `symtab` and `sources`.
5. Metadata like the size and time of upload.

If multiple projects require the same file, it needs to be re-uploaded. Sentry
does not access debug files stored in other projects to symbolicate crash
reports.

Commit message:

Maui: link to correct settings to upload symbols (#6875)
* Maui: link to correct settings to upload symbols

The doc incorrectly states that uploads are automatic. This has changed and it's not automatic anymore. Also point to the msbuild doc that should be set up in the maui project.

* Update index.mdx

---------

Co-authored-by: Matt Johnson-Pint <matt.johnson-pint@sentry.io>

src/platforms/common/data-management/debug-files/upload/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Uploading Files
sidebar_order: 3
description: "Learn about uploading debug information files to Sentry."
---

<PlatformSection supported={["unity"]}>
<Note>

The Sentry SDK for Unity automatically uploads debug files at build time. That means you don't need to use `sentry-cli` directly.
You can find more information about this in the [Unity native support documentation](/platforms/unity/native-support/).

</Note>
</PlatformSection>

The most straightforward way to provide Sentry with debug information file is
to upload them using `sentry-cli`. Depending on your workflow, you may want to
upload as part of your build pipeline or when deploying and publishing your
application:

![](debug-files-workflow.png)

<PlatformSection supported={["dotnet"]}>
<Note>

Depending on application type, target platform, and build configuration, the
Sentry support for .NET may require uploading debug files in order to show a
complete stack trace including file names and line numbers. This is especially
true for mobile apps targeting Android or iOS, such as those developed with
.NET MAUI.

To make this easier, the `Sentry` NuGet package (as of verison 3.26.1) includes
the Sentry CLI as a bundled tool, and will invoke it when building
your project if the msbuild property `SentryUploadSymbols` is set to true (default to false).
Refer to [msbuild configuration](/platforms/dotnet/configuration/msbuild) for details.

The remaining information on this page describes invoking the Sentry CLI manually.

</Note>
</PlatformSection>

<PlatformContent includePath="upload-dif">

Files can be uploaded using the `upload-dif` command. This command will scan a
given folder recursively for files and upload them to Sentry:

</PlatformContent>

For all available options and more information refer to [_Uploading Debug
Information_](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files).

Debug files should be uploaded before deploying or releasing your
application so that crash reports can be processed. For manual testing, use the
`sentry-cli upload-dif --wait` before sending the first native crash or error
event.

If you upload a file that was previously reported as missing by Sentry in a crash
report, it may take up to one hour until Sentry starts using this file for new
crash reports. Existing events and issues are not processed again.

In Sentry, your uploaded files are associated with projects. You can view and
manage uploads at **Project Settings > Debug Files**. This screen displays the
most important properties of debug files:

1. The debug identifier. There may be multiple entries sharing the same
   identifier, if debug information is split across multiple files.
2. The name of the debug file. Sentry uses the name on the file system when
   uploading the file using `sentry-cli`.
3. The architecture, and type of the file. This can be used to distinguish files
   into executables and debug companions if their debug identifiers and names
   match.
4. The debug information available in these files. This can include `unwind`,
   `debug`, `symtab` and `sources`.
5. Metadata like the size and time of upload.

If multiple projects require the same file, it needs to be re-uploaded. Sentry
does not access debug files stored in other projects to symbolicate crash
reports.
