src/docs/contributing/environment.mdx, before:

---
title: Development Environment
noindex: true
sidebar_order: 1
---

You will need [Volta][volta] and [pre-commit][pre-commit] installed. If you don't have opinions about the process, this will get you going:

```bash
# Install Homebrew and everything mentioned above
# Clone the sentry-docs repo, and then navigate into the cloned files
bin/bootstrap
```

Once you have the required system dependencies:

```bash
# Install or update application dependencies
make
```

Now run the development webserver:

```bash
yarn start
```

You will now be able to access docs via http://localhost:3000.

[gatsby]: https://gatsbyjs.org
[volta]: https://volta.sh/
[pre-commit]: https://pre-commit.com/

## Linting

A few linters are available. Run `yarn lint` to apply them all.

Additionally we use prettier to format our code. Run prettier if you get linting errors in CI:

```bash
yarn prettier:fix
```

If you want to run prettier on mdx and markdown files, run

```bash
yarn prettier:fix:all
```

## Faster builds

To disable image thumbnail generation, set `DISABLE_THUMBNAILS=1` before running `yarn start` or `yarn build`. Images will not work while in this mode, but builds will be significantly faster.

Commit message:

feat(lint): Automatic fix + commit in CI (#6810)

src/docs/contributing/environment.mdx, after:

---
title: Development Environment
noindex: true
sidebar_order: 1
---

You will need [Volta][volta] and [pre-commit][pre-commit] installed. If you don't have opinions about the process, this will get you going:

```bash
# Install Homebrew and everything mentioned above
# Clone the sentry-docs repo, and then navigate into the cloned files
bin/bootstrap
```

Once you have the required system dependencies:

```bash
# Install or update application dependencies
make
```

Now run the development webserver:

```bash
yarn start
```

You will now be able to access docs via http://localhost:3000.

[gatsby]: https://gatsbyjs.org
[volta]: https://volta.sh/
[pre-commit]: https://pre-commit.com/

## Linting

A few linters are available. Run `yarn lint` to apply them all.

Some lints can be autofixed with eslint

```bash
yarn lint:eslint:fix
```

Additionally we use prettier to format our code and markdown. Run prettier if you get linting errors in CI:

```bash
yarn lint:prettier:fix
```

## Faster builds

To disable image thumbnail generation, set `DISABLE_THUMBNAILS=1` before running `yarn start` or `yarn build`. Images will not work while in this mode, but builds will be significantly faster.
