src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/upload/webpack/javascript.mdx, before:

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using a Sentry SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

You can use the Sentry Webpack plugin to automatically create releases and upload source maps to Sentry when bundling your app.

## Installation

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/webpack-plugin --dev
```

## Configuration

Learn more about configuring the plugin in our [Sentry Webpack Plugin documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sentry/webpack-plugin).

Example:

<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript.gatsby"]}>

```javascript {filename:webpack.config.js}
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  // ... other config above ...

  devtool: "source-map", // Source map generation must be turned on
  plugins: [
    sentryWebpackPlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

      // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
      // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
};
```

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.gatsby"]}>

```javascript {filename:gatsby-node.js}
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

exports.onCreateWebpackConfig = ({ actions }) => {
  actions.setWebpackConfig({
    plugins: [
      sentryWebpackPlugin({
        org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
        project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

        // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
        // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
        authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
      }),
    ],
  });
};
```

</PlatformSection>

<Note>

The Sentry Webpack plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your implementation.

</Note>

<Note>

If you use [SourceMapDevToolPlugin](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/source-map-dev-tool-plugin) for more fine-grained control of source map generation, turn off `noSources` so Sentry can display proper source code context in event stack traces.

</Note>

Commit message:

Add sourcemaps wizard instructions to uploading source maps docs

src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/upload/webpack/javascript.mdx, after:

<Note>

This guide assumes you are using a Sentry SDK on version `7.47.0` or higher.

If you are on an older version and you want to upload source maps we recommend upgrading your SDK to the newest version.

</Note>

You can use the Sentry Webpack plugin to automatically create releases and upload source maps to Sentry when bundling your app.

## Automatic Setup

The easiest way to configure uploading source maps with Webpack is by using the Sentry Wizard:

<Include name="sourcemaps-wizard-instructions.mdx"/>

If you want to configure source maps upload with Webpack manually, follow the steps below.


## Manual Setup

Install the Sentry Webpack plugin:

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/webpack-plugin --dev
```

### Configuration

Learn more about configuring the plugin in our [Sentry Webpack Plugin documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sentry/webpack-plugin).

Example:

<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript.gatsby"]}>

```javascript {filename:webpack.config.js}
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  // ... other config above ...

  devtool: "source-map", // Source map generation must be turned on
  plugins: [
    sentryWebpackPlugin({
      org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
      project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

      // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
      // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
      authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
    }),
  ],
};
```

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.gatsby"]}>

```javascript {filename:gatsby-node.js}
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

exports.onCreateWebpackConfig = ({ actions }) => {
  actions.setWebpackConfig({
    plugins: [
      sentryWebpackPlugin({
        org: "___ORG_SLUG___",
        project: "___PROJECT_SLUG___",

        // Auth tokens can be obtained from https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/
        // and need `project:releases` and `org:read` scopes
        authToken: process.env.SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN,
      }),
    ],
  });
};
```

</PlatformSection>

<Note>

The Sentry Webpack plugin doesn't upload source maps in watch-mode/development-mode.
We recommend running a production build to test your configuration.

</Note>

<Note>

If you use [SourceMapDevToolPlugin](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/source-map-dev-tool-plugin) for more fine-grained control of source map generation, turn off `noSources` so Sentry can display proper source code context in event stack traces.

</Note>
