src/platforms/flutter/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
sidebar_order: 100
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/flutter/usage/advanced-usage/
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve edge cases regarding known limitations and bundling."
---

If you need help solving issues with Sentry's Flutter SDK, you can read the edge cases documented here. If you need additional help, you can [ask on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dart/issues/new/choose). Customers on a paid plan may also contact support.

## Known Limitations

- If you enable the `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` features, you must upload [debug symbols](/platforms/flutter/upload-debug/).
- Issue titles might be obfuscated as we rely on the `runtimeType`, but they may not be human-readable. See the [Obfuscate Caveat](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/obfuscate#caveat).
- Layout related errors are only caught by [FlutterError.onError](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/foundation/FlutterError/onError.html) in debug mode. In release mode, they are removed by the Flutter framework. See [Flutter build modes](https://flutter.dev/docs/testing/build-modes).
- On Windows, you have to set the version and build number manually, see [this issue on GitHub](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/73652). To do so:
  - Use Dart defines to build the app: `flutter build windows --dart-define=SENTRY_RELEASE=my_app@1.0.0+1`
  - Or, set the release on SentryOptions `options.release = 'my_app@1.0.0+1'` during SDK initialization.

## Building Specific ABI on Android

The Sentry Flutter SDK includes the Sentry Android SDK, which bundles multiple native libraries for multiple ABIs.
Building a Flutter app for a specific ABI using the `--target-platform` argument, for example an ARM 32bit apk, looks like this, which should also include the `--split-per-abi` flag:

```bash
flutter build apk --target-platform=android-arm --split-per-abi
```

## Native Symbolication on Android

The configuration for symbolication of Native events (C/C++) is documented in our [Android Native Development Kit](/platforms/android/using-ndk/) content. If you are having issues with symbolication in Flutter, check that your configuration is correct, as discussed in our Flutter content that covers [Uploading for Android NDK](/platforms/flutter/upload-debug/#uploading-for-android-ndk)

## Native Symbolication on iOS/macOS

Flutter `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags are supported on iOS/macOS. They require compiling your app using Flutter, version `3.7.0` and above and the Sentry Flutter SDK, version `6.10.0` and above.

## Source Context

Source Context support requires compiling your app using the `split-debug-info` build parameter and the latest Flutter (`master` channel), you must also upload [debug symbols](/platforms/flutter/upload-debug/).

Commit message:

Fix min version for sourec code context on Flutter ios

src/platforms/flutter/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
sidebar_order: 100
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/flutter/usage/advanced-usage/
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve edge cases regarding known limitations and bundling."
---

If you need help solving issues with Sentry's Flutter SDK, you can read the edge cases documented here. If you need additional help, you can [ask on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dart/issues/new/choose). Customers on a paid plan may also contact support.

## Known Limitations

- If you enable the `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` features, you must upload [debug symbols](/platforms/flutter/upload-debug/).
- Issue titles might be obfuscated as we rely on the `runtimeType`, but they may not be human-readable. See the [Obfuscate Caveat](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/obfuscate#caveat).
- Layout related errors are only caught by [FlutterError.onError](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/foundation/FlutterError/onError.html) in debug mode. In release mode, they are removed by the Flutter framework. See [Flutter build modes](https://flutter.dev/docs/testing/build-modes).
- On Windows, you have to set the version and build number manually, see [this issue on GitHub](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/73652). To do so:
  - Use Dart defines to build the app: `flutter build windows --dart-define=SENTRY_RELEASE=my_app@1.0.0+1`
  - Or, set the release on SentryOptions `options.release = 'my_app@1.0.0+1'` during SDK initialization.

## Building Specific ABI on Android

The Sentry Flutter SDK includes the Sentry Android SDK, which bundles multiple native libraries for multiple ABIs.
Building a Flutter app for a specific ABI using the `--target-platform` argument, for example an ARM 32bit apk, looks like this, which should also include the `--split-per-abi` flag:

```bash
flutter build apk --target-platform=android-arm --split-per-abi
```

## Native Symbolication on Android

The configuration for symbolication of Native events (C/C++) is documented in our [Android Native Development Kit](/platforms/android/using-ndk/) content. If you are having issues with symbolication in Flutter, check that your configuration is correct, as discussed in our Flutter content that covers [Uploading for Android NDK](/platforms/flutter/upload-debug/#uploading-for-android-ndk)

## Native Symbolication on iOS/macOS

Flutter `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags are supported on iOS/macOS. They require compiling your app using Flutter, version `3.7.0` and above and the Sentry Flutter SDK, version `6.10.0` and above.

## Source Context

Source Context support requires compiling your app using the `split-debug-info` build parameter and compiling your app using Flutter, version `3.10.0` and above, you must also upload [debug symbols](/platforms/flutter/upload-debug/) with the `upload_sources` option enabled.
