src/platforms/flutter/upload-debug.mdx, before:

---
title: Debug Symbols
sidebar_order: 2
description: "Learn more about uploading debug symbols for both Android, iOS/macOS, and Flutter Web."
---

Debug symbols provide information that Sentry displays on the **Issue Details** page to help you triage an issue. We offer a range of methods to provide Sentry with debug symbols.

## When to Upload

With default settings, complete stack traces are available in your Dart error, out of the box, unless you use [`split-debug-info`](https://flutter.dev/docs/perf/app-size#reducing-app-size) and [`obfuscate`](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/obfuscate). In those cases, you need to upload the debug information files generated by the `flutter` build, so Sentry can show you proper stack traces.

<Note>

For Flutter Desktop (Windows/macOS/Linux) `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags are not supported yet. See this [issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dart/issues/433).

</Note>

Errors raised from the native layer in Flutter apps require certain debug information files to be uploaded. For example, an Android app can use `proguard` for minification and obfuscation. And when using NDK, dwarf debug files need to be uploaded. Flutter Web requires sourcemaps and iOS apps also require dwarf debug information files.

## Automatically Upload Debug Symbols

The most straight forward way is to [use the Sentry Dart Plugin](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dart-plugin), which uploads debug symbols automatically for you.

### Install

In your `pubspec.yaml`, add `sentry_dart_plugin` as a new dev dependency.

```yaml
dev_dependencies:
  sentry_dart_plugin: ^1.0.0
```

### Build

The `flutter build apk`, `flutter build ios` (or _macos_) or `flutter build web` is required before executing the `sentry_dart_plugin` plugin, because the build spits out the debug symbols and source maps.

### Configure

This tool comes with a default configuration. You can configure it to suit your needs.

Add `sentry:` configuration at the end of your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
sentry:
  upload_debug_symbols: true
  upload_source_maps: false
  upload_sources: false
  project: ...
  org: ...
  auth_token: ...
  url: ...
  wait_for_processing: false
  log_level: error # possible values: trace, debug, info, warn, error
  release: ...
  web_build_path: ...
  commits: auto
  ignore_missing: true
```

#### Available Configuration Fields

`project`

: The project's name. e.g. `sentry-flutter`. Required. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_PROJECT

`org`

: Your organization's slug e.g. `sentry-sdks`. Required. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_ORG`.

`auth_token`

: The sentry auth token e.g. `<64 random characteres>`. Required. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN`.

`upload_debug_symbols`

: Enables or disables the automatic upload of debug symbols. This is a boolean type with default value `true`.

`upload_source_maps`

: Enables or disables the automatic upload of source maps. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

`upload_sources`

: Does or doesn't include the source code of native code. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

`url`

: The URL of your project e.g. `https<area>://mysentry.invalid/`. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_URL`.

`wait_for_processing`

: Wait for server-side processing of uploaded files. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

`log_level`

: Configures the log level for sentry-cli. This is a `string` type with default value `warn`. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_LOG_LEVEL`.

`release`

: The release version for source maps, it should match the release set by the SDK. This is a `string` type with default value `name@version` from pubspec. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_RELEASE`.

`web_build_path`

: The web build folder. This is a `string` type with default value `build/web`.

`commits`

: Release commits integration. This is a `string` type with default value `auto`.

`ignore_missing`

: Ignore missing commits previously used in the release. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

### Run

```bash
flutter packages pub run sentry_dart_plugin
```

### Troubleshooting

Refer to [Troubleshooting - Sentry Dart Plugin](/platforms/flutter/troubleshooting#sentry-dart-plugin) to resolve potential issues.

## Manually Upload Debug Symbols

### Uploading for iOS and macOS

Sentry requires a dSYM upload to symbolicate your crash logs. The symbolication process unscrambles Apple’s crash logs to reveal the function, file names, and line numbers of the crash. [Learn how to upload the dSYM files](/platforms/apple/dsym/).

If you use the `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags, you need to upload the `*.dSYM` files instead of the `*.symbols` files generated by the Flutter build. The `*.dSYM` files are located in the `build` folder of your project and not the given `split-debug-info` folder.

### Uploading for Android NDK

The NDK symbols are uploaded by the Sentry Dart Plugin as well if `upload_debug_symbols` option is enabled. As an alternative, you can also use our CLI to [upload source maps for Flutter Web](https://github.com/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts).

If you are using `sentry_flutter` version earlier than 5.1, native symbolication on Android requires a specific configuration. Refer to [Troubleshooting](/platforms/flutter/troubleshooting/) for more information.

<Note>

Sentry's Flutter SDK doesn't currently support the `uploadNativeSymbols` flag from the [Sentry Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/gradle/).

</Note>

### Uploading with ProGuard

To use ProGuard with Sentry, upload the [Android Proguard/R8 mapping files](/platforms/android/proguard/) by either the recommended method of using our Gradle integration or manually by using [sentry-cli](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload). This is optional, and only needed if you have ProGuard (`minifyEnabled`) enabled.

### Uploading Source Maps for Flutter Web

The Sentry Dart plugin uploads source maps as well if `upload_source_maps` is enabled. As an alternative, you can also use our CLI to [upload source maps for Flutter Web](/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts).

Commit message:

add possible values for log_level

src/platforms/flutter/upload-debug.mdx, after:

---
title: Debug Symbols
sidebar_order: 2
description: "Learn more about uploading debug symbols for both Android, iOS/macOS, and Flutter Web."
---

Debug symbols provide information that Sentry displays on the **Issue Details** page to help you triage an issue. We offer a range of methods to provide Sentry with debug symbols.

## When to Upload

With default settings, complete stack traces are available in your Dart error, out of the box, unless you use [`split-debug-info`](https://flutter.dev/docs/perf/app-size#reducing-app-size) and [`obfuscate`](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/obfuscate). In those cases, you need to upload the debug information files generated by the `flutter` build, so Sentry can show you proper stack traces.

<Note>

For Flutter Desktop (Windows/macOS/Linux) `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags are not supported yet. See this [issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dart/issues/433).

</Note>

Errors raised from the native layer in Flutter apps require certain debug information files to be uploaded. For example, an Android app can use `proguard` for minification and obfuscation. And when using NDK, dwarf debug files need to be uploaded. Flutter Web requires sourcemaps and iOS apps also require dwarf debug information files.

## Automatically Upload Debug Symbols

The most straight forward way is to [use the Sentry Dart Plugin](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-dart-plugin), which uploads debug symbols automatically for you.

### Install

In your `pubspec.yaml`, add `sentry_dart_plugin` as a new dev dependency.

```yaml
dev_dependencies:
  sentry_dart_plugin: ^1.0.0
```

### Build

The `flutter build apk`, `flutter build ios` (or _macos_) or `flutter build web` is required before executing the `sentry_dart_plugin` plugin, because the build spits out the debug symbols and source maps.

### Configure

This tool comes with a default configuration. You can configure it to suit your needs.

Add `sentry:` configuration at the end of your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
sentry:
  upload_debug_symbols: true
  upload_source_maps: false
  upload_sources: false
  project: ...
  org: ...
  auth_token: ...
  url: ...
  wait_for_processing: false
  log_level: error # possible values: trace, debug, info, warn, error
  release: ...
  web_build_path: ...
  commits: auto
  ignore_missing: true
```

#### Available Configuration Fields

`project`

: The project's name. e.g. `sentry-flutter`. Required. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_PROJECT

`org`

: Your organization's slug e.g. `sentry-sdks`. Required. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_ORG`.

`auth_token`

: The sentry auth token e.g. `<64 random characteres>`. Required. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN`.

`upload_debug_symbols`

: Enables or disables the automatic upload of debug symbols. This is a boolean type with default value `true`.

`upload_source_maps`

: Enables or disables the automatic upload of source maps. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

`upload_sources`

: Does or doesn't include the source code of native code. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

`url`

: The URL of your project e.g. `https<area>://mysentry.invalid/`. This is a `string` type. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_URL`.

`wait_for_processing`

: Wait for server-side processing of uploaded files. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

`log_level`

: Configures the log level for sentry-cli. This is a `string` type with default value `warn`. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_LOG_LEVEL`. Possible values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, and `error`.

`release`

: The release version for source maps, it should match the release set by the SDK. This is a `string` type with default value `name@version` from pubspec. The alternative environmental variable is `SENTRY_RELEASE`.

`web_build_path`

: The web build folder. This is a `string` type with default value `build/web`.

`commits`

: Release commits integration. This is a `string` type with default value `auto`.

`ignore_missing`

: Ignore missing commits previously used in the release. This is a boolean type with default value `false`.

### Run

```bash
flutter packages pub run sentry_dart_plugin
```

### Troubleshooting

Refer to [Troubleshooting - Sentry Dart Plugin](/platforms/flutter/troubleshooting#sentry-dart-plugin) to resolve potential issues.

## Manually Upload Debug Symbols

### Uploading for iOS and macOS

Sentry requires a dSYM upload to symbolicate your crash logs. The symbolication process unscrambles Apple’s crash logs to reveal the function, file names, and line numbers of the crash. [Learn how to upload the dSYM files](/platforms/apple/dsym/).

If you use the `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags, you need to upload the `*.dSYM` files instead of the `*.symbols` files generated by the Flutter build. The `*.dSYM` files are located in the `build` folder of your project and not the given `split-debug-info` folder.

### Uploading for Android NDK

The NDK symbols are uploaded by the Sentry Dart Plugin as well if `upload_debug_symbols` option is enabled. As an alternative, you can also use our CLI to [upload source maps for Flutter Web](https://github.com/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts).

If you are using `sentry_flutter` version earlier than 5.1, native symbolication on Android requires a specific configuration. Refer to [Troubleshooting](/platforms/flutter/troubleshooting/) for more information.

<Note>

Sentry's Flutter SDK doesn't currently support the `uploadNativeSymbols` flag from the [Sentry Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/gradle/).

</Note>

### Uploading with ProGuard

To use ProGuard with Sentry, upload the [Android Proguard/R8 mapping files](/platforms/android/proguard/) by either the recommended method of using our Gradle integration or manually by using [sentry-cli](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload). This is optional, and only needed if you have ProGuard (`minifyEnabled`) enabled.

### Uploading Source Maps for Flutter Web

The Sentry Dart plugin uploads source maps as well if `upload_source_maps` is enabled. As an alternative, you can also use our CLI to [upload source maps for Flutter Web](/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts).
