src/platform-includes/getting-started-primer/react-native.mdx, before:

<Note>

Sentry's React Native SDK enables automatic reporting of errors and exceptions, and identifies performance issues in your application. The React Native SDK includes performance monitoring (our `@sentry/tracing` package) by default.

</Note>

Features:

- Automatic Native Crash [Error Tracking](/product/issues/) (using both `sentry-cocoa` & `sentry-android`)
- Offline storage of events
  - Android: Offline caching when a device is offline; we send a report once the application is restarted
  - iOS: Offline caching when a device is unable to connect; we send a report once we receive another event
- Events [enriched](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/context/) with device data
- [Autolinking](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2019/07/03/version-60#native-modules-are-now-autolinked)
- [Breadcrumbs](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/) created for outgoing `http` request with XHR and Fetch; UI and system events; and console logs
- [Release health](/product/releases/health/) tracks crash free users and sessions
- [Performance Monitoring](/product/performance/) creates transactions automatically for:
  - [App Start](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#app-start-instrumentation) time
  - [Routing Instrumentation](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#enable-routing-instrumentation) (React Navigation v4 and above and React Native Navigation)
  - [XHR and Fetch](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#fetchxml-request-instrumentation) requests
  - [User Interaction](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/user-interaction-instrumentation/) events (touch, gesture)
  - [Slow and Frozen frames](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#slow-and-frozen-frames) tracking
  - [Stall Tracking](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) of the JavaScript loop
  - [React Profiler](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#react-profiler) tracks React components
- Under the hood the SDK relies on our [JavaScript SDK](/platforms/javascript/), which makes all functions available for JavaScript also available in this SDK
- On Device symbolication for JavaScript (in Debug)
- [RAM bundle support](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/ram-bundles/)
- [Hermes support](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/hermes/)
- [Expo package](https://docs.expo.io/guides/using-sentry/) maintained by the Expo team
- [Attachments](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/attachments/) enrich your event by storing additional files, such as config or log files.
- [User Feedback](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/user-feedback/) provides the ability to collect user information when an event occurs.
- [View Hierarchy](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/viewhierarchy/) shows the structure of native components at the time an error occurred.

Commit message:

Add RN Source Context to feature page and wizard, enable Source Context page for RN

src/platform-includes/getting-started-primer/react-native.mdx, after:

<Note>

Sentry's React Native SDK enables automatic reporting of errors and exceptions, and identifies performance issues in your application. The React Native SDK includes performance monitoring (our `@sentry/tracing` package) by default.

</Note>

Features:

- Automatic Native Crash [Error Tracking](/product/issues/) (using both `sentry-cocoa` & `sentry-android`)
- Offline storage of events
  - Android: Offline caching when a device is offline; we send a report once the application is restarted
  - iOS: Offline caching when a device is unable to connect; we send a report once we receive another event
- Events [enriched](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/context/) with device data
- [Source Context](/platforms/react-native/data-management/debug-files/source-context/) show snippets of code around the location of stack frames
- [Autolinking](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2019/07/03/version-60#native-modules-are-now-autolinked)
- [Breadcrumbs](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/) created for outgoing `http` request with XHR and Fetch; UI and system events; and console logs
- [Release health](/product/releases/health/) tracks crash free users and sessions
- [Performance Monitoring](/product/performance/) creates transactions automatically for:
  - [App Start](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#app-start-instrumentation) time
  - [Routing Instrumentation](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#enable-routing-instrumentation) (React Navigation v4 and above and React Native Navigation)
  - [XHR and Fetch](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#fetchxml-request-instrumentation) requests
  - [User Interaction](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/user-interaction-instrumentation/) events (touch, gesture)
  - [Slow and Frozen frames](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#slow-and-frozen-frames) tracking
  - [Stall Tracking](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#stall-tracking) of the JavaScript loop
  - [React Profiler](/platforms/react-native/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation/#react-profiler) tracks React components
- Under the hood the SDK relies on our [JavaScript SDK](/platforms/javascript/), which makes all functions available for JavaScript also available in this SDK
- On Device symbolication for JavaScript (in Debug)
- [RAM bundle support](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/ram-bundles/)
- [Hermes support](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/hermes/)
- [Expo package](https://docs.expo.io/guides/using-sentry/) maintained by the Expo team
- [Attachments](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/attachments/) enrich your event by storing additional files, such as config or log files.
- [User Feedback](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/user-feedback/) provides the ability to collect user information when an event occurs.
- [View Hierarchy](/platforms/react-native/enriching-events/viewhierarchy/) shows the structure of native components at the time an error occurred.
