---
title: 'dSYM Upload'
sidebar_order: 0
---

`sentry-cli` can upload dSYM files to Sentry to allow symbolication of iOS app
crashes. It is also used behind the scenes if you use systems like fastlane or
build system integrations.

For general information about dSYM handling, please refer to [Uploading Debug Symbols]({%- link _documentation/clients/cocoa/dsym.md -%}#uploading-dsyms) as well as [_Debug Information Files_]({%- link _documentation/cli/dif/index.md -%}) for an introduction.

## Basic Upload

Use `upload-dif` to upload dSYM files and specify the `dsym` type. If invoked
during an Xcode build step, `sentry-cli` will automatically pick up the
`DWARF_DSYM_FOLDER_PATH` environment variable. Otherwise, provide the path to a
dSYM or folder containing dSYMs as command line argument.

By default, `sentry-cli` uploads executables, libaries and frameworks alongside
the dSYM files. This is required to achieve high quality stack traces for
[Minidump]({%- link _documentation/platforms/minidump/index.md -%}) crash
reports. For iOS apps using our [Cocoa SDK]({%- link
_documentation/clients/cocoa/index.md -%}) this is not required.

Since dSYMs have a unique signature, you do not need to associate them with
releases. `sentry-cli` uses their UUID to associate symbols with crash events.

{% capture __alert_content -%}
Because debug files belong to projects, you will need to specify the organization and project you are working with. For more information about this refer to [Working with Projects]({%- link _documentation/cli/configuration.md -%}#sentry-cli-working-with-projects).
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Note"
  content=__alert_content
%}

Example for iOS apps (only upload dSYMs):

```bash
$ sentry-cli upload-dif -t dsym --no-bin .

> Found 1 debug information file
> Prepared debug information file for upload
> Uploaded 1 missing debug information file
> File processing complete:

     OK 27d16d76-924d-3a1d-b471-604e3b70fb0c (MyApp; x86_64 debug companion)
```

Example for applications using minidumps (upload dSYM and binaries):

```bash
$ sentry-cli upload-dif -t dsym .

> Found 2 debug information files
> Prepared debug information files for upload
> Uploaded 2 missing debug information files
> File processing complete:

     OK 1ddb3423-950a-3646-b17b-d4360e6acfc9 (MyApp; x86_64 executable)
     OK 1ddb3423-950a-3646-b17b-d4360e6acfc9 (MyApp; x86_64 debug companion)
```

## Symbol Maps

If you are hiding debug symbols from Apple, the debug files will not contain
many useful symbols. In that case, the sentry-cli upload will warn you that it
needs BCSymbolMaps:

```bash
$ sentry-cli upload-dif ...
> Found 34 debug information files
> Warning: Found 10 symbol files with hidden symbols (need BCSymbolMaps)
```

In this case, you need the BCSymbolMaps that match your files. Normally, these
get generated by the Xcode build process. Supply the `--symbol-maps` parameter
and point it to the folder containing the symbol maps:

```bash
$ sentry-cli upload-dif --symbol-maps path/to/symbolmaps path/to/debug/symbols
```

## Upload Options

There are a few options you can supply for the upload process

`--no-unwind`

: Do not scan for stack unwinding information. Specify this flag for builds with
  disabled FPO, or when stackwalking occurs on the device. This usually excludes
  executables and libraries. They might still be uploaded, if they contain debug
  information. When using the Cocoa SDK, this flag can safely be activated since
  Sentry does not require unwind information.

`--no-debug`

: Do not scan for debug information. This will usually exclude debug companion
  files. They might still be uploaded, if they contain stack unwinding
  information.

`--derived-data`

: Search for dSYMs in derived data folder. This is the default location Xcode
  stores its build output in.

`--no-zips`

: By default, sentry-cli will open and search ZIP archives for dSYMs. This is
  especially useful when downloading builds from iTunes Connect. Use this switch
  to disable if your search paths contain large ZIP archives without dSYMs to
  speed up the search.

`--force-foreground`

: This option forces the dSYM upload to happen in foreground. This only affects
  uploads invoked from Xcode build steps. By default, the upload process will
  detach when started from Xcode and finish in the background. If you need to
  debug the upload process it might be useful to force the upload to run in the
  foreground.

`--info-plist`

: Overrides the search path for `Info.plist`, usefule if it is located in a
  non-standard location.

`--no-reprocessing`

: This parameter prevents Sentry from triggering reprocessing right away. It can
  be useful under rare circumstances where you want to upload files in multiple
  batches and you want to ensure that Sentry does not start reprocessing before
  some optional dsyms are uploaded. Note though that someone can still in the
  meantime trigger reprocessing from the UI.

`--symbol-maps`

: Resolve hidden symbols in iTunes Connect builds using BCSymbolMaps. This is
  needed to symbolicate crashes if symbols were not uploaded to Apple when
  publishing the app in the AppStore.
