---
title: 'ELF Symbol Upload'
sidebar_order: 1
---

`sentry-cli` can upload ELF symbols generated on various Linux distributions to
Sentry to allow symbolication of Linux and Android app crashes. ELF stands for
_Executable and Linkable Format_, the file format used for binaries on Linux.

Unlike other platforms, there is no standardized container for debug symbols.
They are part of the binary (executable or library) and stripped when generating
release builds due to their size. However, there is a way to retain them in a
separate file (either in a different location or with `.debug` extension):

```bash
# There is an executable called "binary" in the CWD
objcopy --only-keep-debug binary binary.debug
objcopy --strip-debug --strip-unneeded binary
objcopy --add-gnu-debuglink=binary.debug binary
```

Shared libraries installed via package managers usually provide their debugging
information in separate `*-dev` packages and put it in locations like
`/usr/local/debug/...`. To receive symbolicated stack traces from those
libraries, make sure to also upload their symbols in addition to your app’s
symbols.

## Build Identifiers

Sentry uses the GNU build identifier to associate uploaded debug information
files with crashes. All recent compilers and linkers support the emission of
build IDs, but sometimes they might require additional configuration. `gcc` does
this by default, for `clang` use one of the following flags:

* `--build-id=uuid` for a fast but non-reproducible random identifier.
* `--build-id=sha1` for a slower but reproducible identifier generated by
  hashing the first page of the code section.

Note that the identifier needs to be present and identical in the binary as well
as stripped debug information files. If the ID is missing for some reason,
upload the files before stripping so that `sentry-cli` can compute a stable
identifier from the unstripped file. This can be verified with our `difutil`
command:

```bash
 $ sentry-cli difutil check path/to/file

Debug Info File Check
  Type: elf library
  Contained debug identifiers:
    > 924e148f-3bb7-06a0-74c1-36f42f08b40e (x86_64)
  ...
```

## Debug Info Compression

ELF supports the compression of debug information which can significantly reduce
the time required to upload debug information files to Sentry and thus improve
build times. `gcc` (version 5 or newer) and `clang` (version 5 or newer) support
this by passing the `-gz` flag to both the compiler and linker.

This can be verified by checking for the `C` flag in `readelf`, corresponding to
`SHF_COMPRESSED`:

```bash
$ readelf -S path/to/file
  ...
  [21] .debug_info       PROGBITS         0000000000000000  00000370
       000000000000e133  0000000000000000   C       0     0     1
```

## Basic Upload

Use `upload-dif` to upload ELF symbols and specify the `elf` type. The command
will recurively scan the provided folders or ZIP archives. If you stripped debug
information into separate files, this uploads both the stripped executable and
the debug information file to achieve highest stack trace quality. This is
particularly helpful for release builds with frame pointer omission (FPO).

{% capture __alert_content -%}
Because debug files belong to projects, you will need to specify the organization and project you are working with. For more information about this refer to [Working with Projects]({%- link _documentation/cli/configuration.md -%}#sentry-cli-working-with-projects).
{%- endcapture -%}
{%- include components/alert.html
  title="Note"
  content=__alert_content
%}

Example:

```bash
$ sentry-cli upload-dif -t elf .

> Found 2 debug information files
> Prepared debug information files for upload
> Uploaded 2 missing debug information files
> File processing complete:

     OK c0bcc3f1-9827-fe65-3058-404b2831d9e6 (binary; x86_64 executable)
     OK c0bcc3f1-9827-fe65-3058-404b2831d9e6 (binary.debug; x86_64 debug companion)
```

## Upload Options

There are a few options you can supply for the upload process

`--no-unwind`

: Do not scan for stack unwinding information. Specify this flag for builds with
  disabled FPO, or when stackwalking occurs on the device. This usually excludes
  executables and libraries. They might still be uploaded, if they contain debug
  information.

`--no-debug`

: Do not scan for debug information. This will usually exclude debug companion
  files. They might still be uploaded, if they contain stack unwinding
  information.

`--no-zips`

: By default, sentry-cli will open and search ZIP archives for files. Use this
  switch to disable if your search paths contain large ZIP archives without
  debug information files to speed up the search.

`--no-reprocessing`

: This parameter prevents Sentry from triggering reprocessing right away. It can
  be useful under rare circumstances where you want to upload files in multiple
  batches and you want to ensure that Sentry does not start reprocessing before
  some optional dsyms are uploaded. Note though that someone can still in the
  meantime trigger reprocessing from the UI.
