src/platforms/php/index.mdx, before:

---
title: PHP
redirect_from:
  - /clients/php/integrations/monolog/
---

On this page, we get you up and running with Sentry's PHP SDK, automatically reporting errors and exceptions in your application.

<Note>

If you don't already have an account and Sentry project established, head over to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/signup/), then return to this page.

</Note>

Using a framework? Take a look at our specific guides to get started.

<GuideGrid platform="php" />

The Sentry PHP SDK provides support for PHP 7.2 or later.

## Install

Sentry captures data by using an SDK within your application’s runtime. These are platform-specific and allow Sentry to have a deep understanding of how your application works.

To install the PHP SDK, you need to be using Composer in your project. For more details about Composer, see the [Composer documentation](https://getcomposer.org/doc/).

```bash
composer require sentry/sdk
```

## Configure

After you’ve completed setting up a project in Sentry, Sentry will give you a value which we call a DSN or Data Source Name. It looks a lot like a standard URL, but it’s just a representation of the configuration required by the Sentry SDKs. It consists of a few pieces, including the protocol, public key, the server address, and the project identifier.

To capture all errors, even the one during the startup of your application, you should initialize the Sentry PHP SDK as soon as possible.

```php
\Sentry\init(['dsn' => '___PUBLIC_DSN___' ]);
```

## Usage

In PHP you can either capture a caught exception or capture the last error with captureLastError.

```php
try {
    $this->functionFailsForSure();
} catch (\Throwable $exception) {
    \Sentry\captureException($exception);
}

// OR

\Sentry\captureLastError();
```

<PageGrid header="Next Steps" nextSteps />

Commit message:

Cleanup legacy SDK documentation (#7007)
* fix noindex meta tags

* refactor PHP legacy documentation

* refactor Go legacy documentation

* refactor Perl legacy documentation (final touches)

* refactor C# legacy documentation

* refactor Node.js legacy documentation

* refactor JavaScript legacy documentation

* refactor Python legacy documentation

* search/replace updated legacy SDK URLs

* style(lint): Auto commit lint changes

* style(lint): Auto commit lint changes

* Use absolute URLs, since wizard is running somewhere else

* Redirect /clients/SDK to /platforms/SDK/legacy-sdk

---------

Co-authored-by: getsantry[bot] <66042841+getsantry[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

src/platforms/php/index.mdx, after:

---
title: PHP
redirect_from:
  - /clients/php/integrations/monolog/
---

On this page, we get you up and running with Sentry's PHP SDK, automatically reporting errors and exceptions in your application.

<Note>

If you don't already have an account and Sentry project established, head over to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/signup/), then return to this page.

</Note>

Using a framework? Take a look at our specific guides to get started.

<GuideGrid platform="php" />

This Sentry PHP SDK provides support for PHP 7.2 or later. If you are using our previous PHP SDK, you can access the <Link rel={`nofollow`} to={`/platforms/php/legacy-sdk/`}>legacy SDK documentation</Link>, until further notice.

## Install

Sentry captures data by using an SDK within your application’s runtime. These are platform-specific and allow Sentry to have a deep understanding of how your application works.

To install the PHP SDK, you need to be using Composer in your project. For more details about Composer, see the [Composer documentation](https://getcomposer.org/doc/).

```bash
composer require sentry/sdk
```

## Configure

After you’ve completed setting up a project in Sentry, Sentry will give you a value which we call a DSN or Data Source Name. It looks a lot like a standard URL, but it’s just a representation of the configuration required by the Sentry SDKs. It consists of a few pieces, including the protocol, public key, the server address, and the project identifier.

To capture all errors, even the one during the startup of your application, you should initialize the Sentry PHP SDK as soon as possible.

```php
\Sentry\init(['dsn' => '___PUBLIC_DSN___' ]);
```

## Usage

In PHP you can either capture a caught exception or capture the last error with captureLastError.

```php
try {
    $this->functionFailsForSure();
} catch (\Throwable $exception) {
    \Sentry\captureException($exception);
}

// OR

\Sentry\captureLastError();
```

<PageGrid header="Next Steps" nextSteps />
