src/docs/product/performance/filters-display/widgets.mdx, before:

---
title: "Performance Widgets"
sidebar_order: 10
description: "Learn more about Sentry's Performance widgets such as Most Related Issues, Most Regressed Transactions, and Slow HTTP Ops, and how they can be used to surface performance insights in your applications."
---

Performance widgets offer visualizations that you can change to best match your workflow. They provide performance-specific views that allow you see and act on transaction data across your organization.
Depending on which **Performance** tab you've selected, different curated performance widgets will be available.

<Note>

The value displayed in the top right of some widgets is the overall value for the selected time period, rather than the average of the data displayed in the chart. For datasets with low event volume, the overall value may be higher or lower than expected because metrics like [Apdex](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex) and [User Misery](/product/performance/metrics/#user-misery) are non-linear.

</Note>

## Most Improved

Shows the most improved transactions and visualizes the improvement for the selected transaction in the list. Only trends of a specific significance and throughput are shown. Learn more in [Trends](/product/performance/trends).

## Most Regressed

Shows the most regressed transactions and visualizes the regression for the selected transaction in the list. Only trends of a specific significance and throughput are shown. Learn more in [Trends](/product/performance/trends).

## Most Changed

Shows the most changed transactions and visualizes either an improvement or a regression for the selected transaction in the list. Only trends of a specific significance and throughput are shown. Learn more in [Trends](/product/performance/trends).

## Most Related Issues

Shows the highest count of any issue group related to a transaction and visualizes the issue count over time.

## Most Slow Frames

Shows transactions with the most slow frames for mobile projects. Learn more in [Mobile Vitals](/product/performance/mobile-vitals).

## Most Frozen Frames

Shows transactions with the most frozen frames for mobile projects. Learn more in [Mobile Vitals](/product/performance/mobile-vitals).

## Worst LCP Vitals

Shows transactions with the highest count of poor LCP (Largest Contentful Paint) and visualizes the proportions of user experience for this vital. Learn more in [Web Vitals](/product/performance/web-vitals).

## Worst FCP Vitals

Shows transactions with the highest count of poor FCP (First Contentful Paint) and visualizes the proportions of user experience for this vital. Learn more in [Web Vitals](/product/performance/web-vitals).

## Worst FID Vitals

Shows transactions with the highest count of poor FID (First Input Delay) and visualizes the proportions of user experience for this vital. Learn more in [Web Vitals](/product/performance/web-vitals).

## Slow HTTP Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative HTTP spans. Slow HTTP ops are not shown for all projects and transactions as the transactions must contain HTTP spans. Check out the SDK documentation for the project in question for more information.

## Slow DB Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative DB spans. Slow DB ops are not shown for all projects and transactions as the transactions must contain DB spans. Check out the SDK documentation for the project in question for more information.

## Most Time Spent in DB Queries

Shows database queries that take the most time in your application. These queries are usually either slow, very frequent, or both. See [Database](/project/performance/database) for more information.

## Slow Browser Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative browser spans. These show frontend transactions with poor performing browser spans, such as DNS lookup, TLS/SSL, and so on.

## Slow Resource Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative resource spans. These show frontend transactions with poor performing resources spans, and show cumulative time spent loading scripts, CSS, and so on.

Commit message:

Add content to describe each page in database flow

src/docs/product/performance/filters-display/widgets.mdx, after:

---
title: "Performance Widgets"
sidebar_order: 10
description: "Learn more about Sentry's Performance widgets such as Most Related Issues, Most Regressed Transactions, and Slow HTTP Ops, and how they can be used to surface performance insights in your applications."
---

Performance widgets offer visualizations that you can change to best match your workflow. They provide performance-specific views that allow you see and act on transaction data across your organization.
Depending on which **Performance** tab you've selected, different curated performance widgets will be available.

<Note>

The value displayed in the top right of some widgets is the overall value for the selected time period, rather than the average of the data displayed in the chart. For datasets with low event volume, the overall value may be higher or lower than expected because metrics like [Apdex](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex) and [User Misery](/product/performance/metrics/#user-misery) are non-linear.

</Note>

## Most Improved

Shows the most improved transactions and visualizes the improvement for the selected transaction in the list. Only trends of a specific significance and throughput are shown. Learn more in [Trends](/product/performance/trends).

## Most Regressed

Shows the most regressed transactions and visualizes the regression for the selected transaction in the list. Only trends of a specific significance and throughput are shown. Learn more in [Trends](/product/performance/trends).

## Most Changed

Shows the most changed transactions and visualizes either an improvement or a regression for the selected transaction in the list. Only trends of a specific significance and throughput are shown. Learn more in [Trends](/product/performance/trends).

## Most Related Issues

Shows the highest count of any issue group related to a transaction and visualizes the issue count over time.

## Most Slow Frames

Shows transactions with the most slow frames for mobile projects. Learn more in [Mobile Vitals](/product/performance/mobile-vitals).

## Most Frozen Frames

Shows transactions with the most frozen frames for mobile projects. Learn more in [Mobile Vitals](/product/performance/mobile-vitals).

## Worst LCP Vitals

Shows transactions with the highest count of poor LCP (Largest Contentful Paint) and visualizes the proportions of user experience for this vital. Learn more in [Web Vitals](/product/performance/web-vitals).

## Worst FCP Vitals

Shows transactions with the highest count of poor FCP (First Contentful Paint) and visualizes the proportions of user experience for this vital. Learn more in [Web Vitals](/product/performance/web-vitals).

## Worst FID Vitals

Shows transactions with the highest count of poor FID (First Input Delay) and visualizes the proportions of user experience for this vital. Learn more in [Web Vitals](/product/performance/web-vitals).

## Slow HTTP Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative HTTP spans. Slow HTTP ops are not shown for all projects and transactions as the transactions must contain HTTP spans. Check out the SDK documentation for the project in question for more information.

## Slow DB Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative DB spans. Slow DB ops are not shown for all projects and transactions as the transactions must contain DB spans. Check out the SDK documentation for the project in question for more information.

## Most Time Spent in DB Queries

Shows database queries that take the most time in your application. These queries are usually either slow, very frequent, or both. Click on a query to open its [**Query Summary** page](/product/performance/database#query-summary-page) or click "View All" to open the [**Database**](/product/performance/database) page.

## Slow Browser Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative browser spans. These show frontend transactions with poor performing browser spans, such as DNS lookup, TLS/SSL, and so on.

## Slow Resource Ops

Shows transactions with slow cumulative resource spans. These show frontend transactions with poor performing resources spans, and show cumulative time spent loading scripts, CSS, and so on.
