---
title: Relay Modes
sidebar_order: 1
---

When configuring a Relay server, it is key to understand the major modes in
which Relay can operate.

As discussed in the introduction, the configuration file contains a `relay.mode`
field. Currently, you can specify one of three modes: `managed`, `static`,
`proxy`.

Event processing in Sentry is configured according to settings defined for the
organization and project. Some settings, such as privacy controls, are set at
the organization level and inherited by all projects in that organization; other
settings are specified per project. For Relay, events are processed according to
the inherited project settings to which the event belongs. The Relay mode
controls the way Relay obtains these project settings.

From Relay's point of view, events are processed according to the settings of
the project it belongs to. Sentry includes all organization settings, such as
organization-wide privacy controls, into settings of all projects belonging to
your organization. The mode controls the way Relay obtains these project
settings.

## Managed Mode

This is the default mode in which Relay operates. To activate managed mode, set this configuration:

```yaml
relay:
  mode: managed
```

Since configuration is obtained from Sentry, authentication is required in this
mode. If authentication fails, no events will be accepted by Relay.

As Relay receives events from applications, it will request project
configurations from Sentry to process the events. If Sentry is unable to provide
the configuration for a particular project, all messages for that project will
be discarded.

Configuration is refreshed in regular intervals. See [Configuration Options] for ways to configure intervals, timeouts and retries.

## Static Mode

In this mode, projects must be configured manually. To activate static mode, set this configuration:

```yaml
relay:
  mode: static
```

In static configuration, Relay will process events only for statically
configured projects and reject events for all other projects. This is useful
when you know the projects sending events upfront, and you wish to explicitly
control the projects that are allowed to send events through this Relay.

To configure projects, add files of format `projects/<PROJECT_ID>.json` to your
Relay configuration folder. For a description of the contents of this file,
refer to [Project Configuration].

<Alert level="info" title="Note">

In `static` mode, Relay does not register with upstream since it does not query
information from it. After processing events for the configured projects, it
forwards them to the upstream with the authentication information (DSN) set by
the client that sent the original request.

</Alert>

## Proxy Mode

This mode is similar to `static` mode but it forwards events from unknown
projects. To activate proxy mode, set this configuration:

```yaml
relay:
  mode: proxy
```

In `proxy` mode, events for statically configured projects are handled
identically to `static` mode. Events for unknown projects -- projects for which
there are no statically configured settings -- are forwarded (proxied) with
minimal processing.

<Alert level="info" title="Rate Limiting">

Rate limiting is still being applied in `proxy` mode for all projects
regardless of whether they are statically configured or proxied.

</Alert>

[configuration options]: /product/relay/options/
[project configuration]: /product/relay/projects/
