src/platforms/python/guides/django/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Django
redirect_from:
  - /clients/python/integrations/django/
  - /platforms/python/django/
description: 'Learn about using Sentry with Django.'
---

Sentry's [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) integration adds support for the Django Framework. It enables automatic reporting of errors and exceptions as well as performance monitoring. In order to get started using the integration, you should have a [Sentry account](https://sentry.io) and a project set up.

<Note>

If you're using Python 3.7., Django applications with Channels 2.0 will be correctly instrumented. Older versions of Python will require the installation of [aiocontextvars](https://pypi.org/project/aiocontextvars/).

</Note>

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `django` extra:

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[django]'
```

## Configure

To configure the Sentry SDK, initialize it in your `settings.py` file:

```python {filename:settings.py}
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",

    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    # We recommend adjusting this value in production,
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
)
```

## Verify

The snippet below includes an intentional error that will be captured by Sentry when triggered. This will allow you to make sure that everything is working as soon as you set it up:

```python
from django.urls import path

def trigger_error(request):
    division_by_zero = 1 / 0

urlpatterns = [
    path('sentry-debug/', trigger_error),
    # ...
]
```

## Behavior

### Issue Reporting

- If you use `django.contrib.auth` and you've set `send_default_pii=True` in your call to `init`, user data (such as current user id, email address, username) will be attached to error events.
- Request data will be attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads.
- Logs emitted by any logger will be recorded as breadcrumbs by the [Logging](/platforms/python/guides/logging/) integration (this integration is enabled by default).

### Performance Monitoring

The following parts of your Django project are monitored:

- Middleware stack
- Signals
- Database queries
- Redis commands

<Note>

The parameter `traces_sample_rate` needs to be set when initializing the Sentry SDK for performance measurements to be recorded.

</Note>

## Options

By adding `DjangoIntegration` explictly to your `sentry_sdk.init()` call you can set options for `DjangoIntegration` to change its behavior:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.django import DjangoIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    # ...
    integrations=[
        DjangoIntegration(
            transaction_style='url',
            middleware_spans=True,
            signals_spans=False,
        ),
    ],
)
```

You can pass the following keyword arguments to `DjangoIntegration()`:

- `transaction_style`:

  How to name transactions showing up in Sentry performance monitoring.

  - `"/myproject/myview/<foo>"` if you set `transaction_style="url"`.
  - `"myproject.myview"` if you set `transaction_style="endpoint"`.

  The default is `"endpoint"`.

- `middleware_spans`:

  Create spans and track performance of all middleware in your Django project. Set to `False` to disable.

  The default is `True`.

- `signals_spans`:

  Create spans and track performance of all [Django signals](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/signals/) receiver functions in your Django project. Set to `False` to disable.

  The default is `True`.

## Supported Versions

- Django 1.8-1.11 (Python: 2.7+)
- Django 2.x (Python: 3.5+)
- Django 3.x (Python: 3.6+)
- Django 4.x (Python: 3.8+)

Commit message:

Added docs for cache spans in Django

src/platforms/python/guides/django/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Django
redirect_from:
  - /clients/python/integrations/django/
  - /platforms/python/django/
description: 'Learn about using Sentry with Django.'
---

Sentry's [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) integration adds support for the Django Framework. It enables automatic reporting of errors and exceptions as well as performance monitoring. In order to get started using the integration, you should have a [Sentry account](https://sentry.io) and a project set up.

<Note>

If you're using Python 3.7., Django applications with Channels 2.0 will be correctly instrumented. Older versions of Python will require the installation of [aiocontextvars](https://pypi.org/project/aiocontextvars/).

</Note>

## Install

Install `sentry-sdk` from PyPI with the `django` extra:

```bash
pip install --upgrade 'sentry-sdk[django]'
```

## Configure

To configure the Sentry SDK, initialize it in your `settings.py` file:

```python {filename:settings.py}
import sentry_sdk

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",

    # Set traces_sample_rate to 1.0 to capture 100%
    # of transactions for performance monitoring.
    # We recommend adjusting this value in production,
    traces_sample_rate=1.0,
)
```

## Verify

The snippet below includes an intentional error that will be captured by Sentry when triggered. This will allow you to make sure that everything is working as soon as you set it up:

```python
from django.urls import path

def trigger_error(request):
    division_by_zero = 1 / 0

urlpatterns = [
    path('sentry-debug/', trigger_error),
    # ...
]
```

## Behavior

### Issue Reporting

- If you use `django.contrib.auth` and you've set `send_default_pii=True` in your call to `init`, user data (such as current user id, email address, username) will be attached to error events.
- Request data will be attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads.
- Logs emitted by any logger will be recorded as breadcrumbs by the [Logging](/platforms/python/guides/logging/) integration (this integration is enabled by default).

### Performance Monitoring

The following parts of your Django project are monitored:

- Middleware stack
- Signals
- Database queries
- Redis commands
- Access to Django caches

<Note>

The parameter `traces_sample_rate` needs to be set when initializing the Sentry SDK for performance measurements to be recorded.

</Note>

## Options

By adding `DjangoIntegration` explictly to your `sentry_sdk.init()` call you can set options for `DjangoIntegration` to change its behavior:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.django import DjangoIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    # ...
    integrations=[
        DjangoIntegration(
            transaction_style='url',
            middleware_spans=True,
            signals_spans=False,
            cache_spans=False,
        ),
    ],
)
```

You can pass the following keyword arguments to `DjangoIntegration()`:

- `transaction_style`:

  How to name transactions showing up in Sentry performance monitoring.

  - `"/myproject/myview/<foo>"` if you set `transaction_style="url"`.
  - `"myproject.myview"` if you set `transaction_style="endpoint"`.

  The default is `"endpoint"`.

- `middleware_spans`:

  Create spans and track performance of all middleware in your Django project. Set to `False` to disable.

  The default is `True`.

- `signals_spans`:

  Create spans and track performance of all [Django signals](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/signals/) receiver functions in your Django project. Set to `False` to disable.

  The default is `True`.

- `cache_spans`:

  Create spans and track performance of all read operations to configured caches. Set to `False` to disable. The spans also include information if the cache access was a hit or a miss.

  The default is `True`.

## Supported Versions

- Django 1.8-1.11 (Python: 2.7+)
- Django 2.x (Python: 3.5+)
- Django 3.x (Python: 3.6+)
- Django 4.x (Python: 3.8+)
