src/platforms/javascript/common/configuration/micro-frontend-support.mdx, before:

---
title: Micro Frontend Support
sidebar_order: 200
keywords:
  [
    "micro frontend",
    "multiplexed transport",
    "module federation",
    "module metadata",
  ]
---

If your frontend includes JavaScript bundles from multiple sources with
different release cycles, you may want to identify these or route events to specific projects. This is especially useful if you've set up [module federation](https://module-federation.github.io/) or a similar frontend architecture.

## Identifying the source of errors

To identify the source of an error, you must inject metadata that helps identify which bundles were responsible for an error. You can do this with the `@sentry/webpack-plugin` by enabling the `_experiments.moduleMetadata` option.

Requires version `2.5.0` or higher of `@sentry/webpack-plugin`.

`moduleMetadata` can be any serializable data or alternatively a function that
returns serializable data. If you supply a function, it will be passed an object
containing the `org`, `project`, and `release` strings.

```javascript
// webpack.config.js
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  devtool: "source-map",
  plugins: [
    sentryWebpackPlugin({
      /* Other plugin config */
      _experiments: {
        moduleMetadata: ({ org, project, release }) => {
          return { team: 'frontend', release },
        }
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

### `ModuleMetadata` Integration

Requires SDK version `7.59.0` or higher.

Once metadata has been injected into modules, the `ModuleMetadata` integration
can be used to look up that metadata and attach it to stack frames with
matching file names. This metadata is then available in other integrations or in
the `beforeSend` callback as the `module_metadata` property on each
`StackFrame`. This can be used to identify which bundles may be responsible
for an error and used to tag or route events.

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";
import { ModuleMetadata } from "@sentry/core";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [ new ModuleMetadata() ]
  beforeSend: (event) => {
    const frames = event?.exception?.values?.[0].stacktrace.frames || [];
    // Get all team names in the stack frames
    const teams = frames.filter(frame => frame.module_metadata && frame.module_metadata.team)
                        .map(frame => frame.module_metadata.team);
    // If there are teams, add them as extra data to the event
    if(teams.length > 0){
      event.extra = {
        ...event.extra,
        teams
      };
    }

    return event;
  },
});

Sentry.captureException(new Error("oh no!"));
```

## Routing events to different projects

Once you've identified which module or modules are likely to be responsible for
an error, you may want to send these events to different Sentry projects. The
multiplexed transport can route events to different Sentry projects based on the
attributes on an event.

Requires SDK version `7.50.0` or higher.

The example below uses a `feature` tag to determine which Sentry project to
send the event to. If the event does not have a `feature` tag, we send it to the
fallback DSN defined in `Sentry.init`.

```typescript
import { captureException, init, makeFetchTransport } from "@sentry/browser";
import { makeMultiplexedTransport } from "@sentry/core";
import { Envelope, EnvelopeItemType } from "@sentry/types";

interface MatchParam {
  /** The envelope to be sent */
  envelope: Envelope;
  /**
   * A function that returns an event from the envelope if one exists. You can optionally pass an array of envelope item
   * types to filter by - only envelopes matching the given types will be returned.
   *
   * @param types Defaults to ['event'] (only error events will be returned)
   */
  getEvent(types?: EnvelopeItemType[]): Event | undefined;
}

function dsnFromFeature({ getEvent }: MatchParam) {
  const event = getEvent();
  switch (event?.tags?.feature) {
    case "cart":
      return [{ dsn: "__CART_DSN__", release: "cart@1.0.0" }];
    case "gallery":
      return [{ dsn: "__GALLERY_DSN__", release: "gallery@1.2.0" }];
    default:
  }
  return [];
}

init({
  dsn: "__FALLBACK_DSN__",
  transport: makeMultiplexedTransport(makeFetchTransport, dsnFromFeature),
});

captureException(new Error("oh no!"), (scope) => {
  scope.setTag("feature", "cart");
  return scope;
});
```

You can then set tags/contexts on events in individual micro-frontends to decide which Sentry project to send the event to.

### `makeMultiplexedTransport` API

`makeMultiplexedTransport` takes an instance of a transport (we recommend
`makeFetchTransport`) and a matcher function that returns an array of objects
containing the DSN and optionally the release.

```typescript
interface RouteTo {
  dsn: string;
  release?: string;
}

type Matcher = (param: MatchParam) => RouteTo[];

declare function makeMultiplexedTransport(
  transport: (options: TransportOptions) => Transport,
  matcher: Matcher
): (options: TransportOptions) => Transport;
```

The matcher function runs after all client processing (`beforeSend` option, event processors from integrations).

## Combining `ModuleMetadata` and `makeMultiplexedTransport`

`ModuleMetadata` and `makeMultiplexedTransport` can be used together to route
events to different Sentry projects based on the module where the error
occurred.

Ensure your modules have injected metadata containing the project DSN and release:

```javascript
// webpack.config.js
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  devtool: "source-map",
  plugins: [
    sentryWebpackPlugin({
      _experiments: {
        moduleMetadata: ({ release }) => ({ dsn: "__MODULE_DSN__", release }),
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

Then when you initialize Sentry:

- Add the `ModuleMetadata` integration so metadata is attached to stack frames
- Add a `beforeSend` callback that sets an `extra` property with the target DSN/release
- Create a transport that routes events when the `extra` property is present

```javascript
import { init, makeFetchTransport } from "@sentry/browser";
import { makeMultiplexedTransport, ModuleMetadata } from "@sentry/core";

const EXTRA_KEY = "ROUTE_TO";

const transport = makeMultiplexedTransport(makeFetchTransport, (args) => {
  const event = args.getEvent();
  if (
    event &&
    event.extra &&
    EXTRA_KEY in event.extra &&
    Array.isArray(event.extra[EXTRA_KEY])
  ) {
    return event.extra[EXTRA_KEY];
  }
  return [];
});

init({
  dsn: "__DEFAULT_DSN__",
  integrations: [new ModuleMetadata()],
  transport,
  beforeSend: (event) => {
    if (event?.exception?.values?.[0].stacktrace.frames) {
      const frames = event.exception.values[0].stacktrace.frames;
      // Find the last frame with module metadata containing a DSN
      const routeTo =
        frames.findLast(
          (frame) => frame.module_metadata && frame.module_metadata.dsn
        ) || [];

      if (routeTo.length) {
        event.extra = {
          ...event.extra,
          EXTRA_KEY: routeTo,
        };
      }
    }

    return event;
  },
});
```

Commit message:

feat(js): Update Micro frontends docs to include new bundler plugin support

src/platforms/javascript/common/configuration/micro-frontend-support.mdx, after:

---
title: Micro Frontend Support
sidebar_order: 200
description: Learn how to identify the source of errors and route events to different Sentry projects when using micro frontend or module federation.
keywords:
  [
    "micro frontend",
    "multiplexed transport",
    "module federation",
    "module metadata",
  ]
---

If your frontend includes JavaScript bundles from multiple sources with
different release cycles, you may want to identify these or route events to specific projects. This is especially useful if you've set up [module federation](https://module-federation.github.io/) or a similar frontend architecture.

## Identifying the source of errors

To identify the source of an error, you must inject metadata that helps identify
which bundles were responsible for the error. You can do this with any of the
Sentry bundler plugins by enabling the `_experiments.moduleMetadata` option.

Requires version `2.5.0` or higher of `@sentry/webpack-plugin` or version
`2.7.0` or higher of `@sentry/rollup-plugin`, `@sentry/vite-plugin` or `@sentry/esbuild-plugin`.

`moduleMetadata` can be any serializable data or alternatively a function that
returns serializable data. If you supply a function, it will be passed an object
containing the `org`, `project`, and `release` strings.

```javascript
// webpack.config.js
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  devtool: "source-map",
  plugins: [
    sentryWebpackPlugin({
      /* Other plugin config */
      _experiments: {
        moduleMetadata: ({ org, project, release }) => {
          return { team: 'frontend', release },
        }
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

### `ModuleMetadata` Integration

Requires SDK version `7.59.0` or higher.

Once metadata has been injected into modules, the `ModuleMetadata` integration
can be used to look up that metadata and attach it to stack frames with
matching file names. This metadata is then available in other integrations or in
the `beforeSend` callback as the `module_metadata` property on each
`StackFrame`. This can be used to identify which bundles may be responsible
for an error and used to tag or route events.

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";
import { ModuleMetadata } from "@sentry/core";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [ new ModuleMetadata() ]
  beforeSend: (event) => {
    const frames = event?.exception?.values?.[0].stacktrace.frames || [];
    // Get all team names in the stack frames
    const teams = frames.filter(frame => frame.module_metadata && frame.module_metadata.team)
                        .map(frame => frame.module_metadata.team);
    // If there are teams, add them as extra data to the event
    if(teams.length > 0){
      event.extra = {
        ...event.extra,
        teams
      };
    }

    return event;
  },
});

Sentry.captureException(new Error("oh no!"));
```

## Routing events to different projects

Once you've identified which module or modules are likely to be responsible for
an error, you may want to send these events to different Sentry projects. The
multiplexed transport can route events to different Sentry projects based on the
attributes on an event.

Requires SDK version `7.50.0` or higher.

The example below uses a `feature` tag to determine which Sentry project to
send the event to. If the event does not have a `feature` tag, we send it to the
fallback DSN defined in `Sentry.init`.

```typescript
import { captureException, init, makeFetchTransport } from "@sentry/browser";
import { makeMultiplexedTransport } from "@sentry/core";
import { Envelope, EnvelopeItemType } from "@sentry/types";

interface MatchParam {
  /** The envelope to be sent */
  envelope: Envelope;
  /**
   * A function that returns an event from the envelope if one exists. You can optionally pass an array of envelope item
   * types to filter by - only envelopes matching the given types will be returned.
   *
   * @param types Defaults to ['event'] (only error events will be returned)
   */
  getEvent(types?: EnvelopeItemType[]): Event | undefined;
}

function dsnFromFeature({ getEvent }: MatchParam) {
  const event = getEvent();
  switch (event?.tags?.feature) {
    case "cart":
      return [{ dsn: "__CART_DSN__", release: "cart@1.0.0" }];
    case "gallery":
      return [{ dsn: "__GALLERY_DSN__", release: "gallery@1.2.0" }];
    default:
  }
  return [];
}

init({
  dsn: "__FALLBACK_DSN__",
  transport: makeMultiplexedTransport(makeFetchTransport, dsnFromFeature),
});

captureException(new Error("oh no!"), (scope) => {
  scope.setTag("feature", "cart");
  return scope;
});
```

You can then set tags/contexts on events in individual micro-frontends to decide which Sentry project to send the event to.

### `makeMultiplexedTransport` API

`makeMultiplexedTransport` takes an instance of a transport (we recommend
`makeFetchTransport`) and a matcher function that returns an array of objects
containing the DSN and optionally the release.

```typescript
interface RouteTo {
  dsn: string;
  release?: string;
}

type Matcher = (param: MatchParam) => RouteTo[];

declare function makeMultiplexedTransport(
  transport: (options: TransportOptions) => Transport,
  matcher: Matcher
): (options: TransportOptions) => Transport;
```

The matcher function runs after all client processing (`beforeSend` option, event processors from integrations).

## Combining `ModuleMetadata` and `makeMultiplexedTransport`

`ModuleMetadata` and `makeMultiplexedTransport` can be used together to route
events to different Sentry projects based on the module where the error
occurred.

Ensure your modules have injected metadata containing the project DSN and release:

```javascript
// webpack.config.js
const { sentryWebpackPlugin } = require("@sentry/webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  devtool: "source-map",
  plugins: [
    sentryWebpackPlugin({
      _experiments: {
        moduleMetadata: ({ release }) => ({ dsn: "__MODULE_DSN__", release }),
      },
    }),
  ],
};
```

Then when you initialize Sentry:

- Add the `ModuleMetadata` integration so metadata is attached to stack frames
- Add a `beforeSend` callback that sets an `extra` property with the target DSN/release
- Create a transport that routes events when the `extra` property is present

```javascript
import { init, makeFetchTransport } from "@sentry/browser";
import { makeMultiplexedTransport, ModuleMetadata } from "@sentry/core";

const EXTRA_KEY = "ROUTE_TO";

const transport = makeMultiplexedTransport(makeFetchTransport, (args) => {
  const event = args.getEvent();
  if (
    event &&
    event.extra &&
    EXTRA_KEY in event.extra &&
    Array.isArray(event.extra[EXTRA_KEY])
  ) {
    return event.extra[EXTRA_KEY];
  }
  return [];
});

init({
  dsn: "__DEFAULT_DSN__",
  integrations: [new ModuleMetadata()],
  transport,
  beforeSend: (event) => {
    if (event?.exception?.values?.[0].stacktrace.frames) {
      const frames = event.exception.values[0].stacktrace.frames;
      // Find the last frame with module metadata containing a DSN
      const routeTo =
        frames.findLast(
          (frame) => frame.module_metadata && frame.module_metadata.dsn
        ) || [];

      if (routeTo.length) {
        event.extra = {
          ...event.extra,
          EXTRA_KEY: routeTo,
        };
      }
    }

    return event;
  },
});
```
