src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/uploading-without-debug-ids/javascript.mdx, before:

We've recently updated all our guides to help users upload source maps using Artifact Bundles with Debug IDs. We think that users who have failed to upload source maps in the past will get a much better experience if they follow our current guides.

However, this does require your application to use a very recent SDK and bundler plugin (or sentry-cli) version. We know that this isn't always possible, so here we'll explain what to expect when uploading source maps without Debug IDs.

## Artifact Bundle & Debug ID Requirements

You need a valid version of our SDK and the bundler plugin (or sentry-cli) to use Artifact Bundles with Debug IDs.

- JavaScript SDK: version `7.47.0` or greater
- Bundler Plugins
  - `@sentry/rollup-plugin` package: version `2.2.0` or greater
  - `@sentry/webpack-plugin` package: version `0.7.2` or greater
  - `@sentry/vite-plugin` package: version `0.7.2` or greater
  - `@sentry/esbuild-plugin` package: version `0.7.2` or greater
- `sentry-cli`: version `2.17.0` or greater

## What happens, if my application can't meet those requirements?

If your application uses an older version of our SDK or bundler plugin (or sentry-cli), the result will roughly be the same. You can still upload source maps; however, the process will differ. Instead of using Debug IDs, you'll be using releases, to match an events stack frame with its corresponding minified source and source map file (known as artifacts).

## Uploading Source maps using our Bundler Plugin

Our guides on uploading source maps with our bundler plugins are applicable to any version your application might use. Visit [Uploading Source Maps](/platforms/javascript/guides/react/sourcemaps/uploading/) to find an applicable guide.

## Uploading Source Maps using `sentry-cli`

Here is our guide to uploading artifacts using [releases](/product/releases/)

### 1. Update SDK Options

To match events with the correct release, you must provide a `release` property in the SDK options:

```javascript
Sentry.init({
  // This value must be identical to the name you give the release that you
  // create below using `sentry-cli`.
  release: "<release_name>",
});
```

### 2. Create a New Release

You must first create a release with `sentry-cli`. The release name must be unique within your organization:

```bash
sentry-cli releases new <release_name>
```

### 3. Upload Artifacts

Next, upload your artifacts (minified sources and source maps):

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> /path/to/directory
```

#### Verify Artifacts Were Uploaded

Open up Sentry and navigate to **Releases -> [latest release] -> Source Maps (right sidebar)** on Sentry.

### Finalize Release

At this point, the release is in a draft state (“_unreleased_”). Once all artifacts have been uploaded and your app has been published successfully, finalize the release with the following command:

```bash
sentry-cli releases finalize <release_name>
```

For more information on how to configure releases via Sentry CLI, see our [Sentry CLI release management docs](/product/cli/releases/).

## Summary

It can come with some headaches, but you can still upload source maps regardless of what version of our SDK or bundler plugin (or sentry-cli) your application depends on. Visit [Troubleshooting Source Maps](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/troubleshooting_js/) if you experience any problems following our guides.

Commit message:

Rephrase "Uploading without Debug IDs" a bit
- Flips the requirements
- Explains what we mean by debug IDs
- Move some sentences around
- Fix broken links

src/platform-includes/sourcemaps/uploading-without-debug-ids/javascript.mdx, after:

Sentry moved to a new process of handling source maps. We call this process "source mapping with debug IDs".

However, this process does require your application to use a very recent SDK and bundler plugin (or sentry-cli) version. We know that this isn't always possible, so here we'll explain what to expect when uploading source maps without Debug IDs.

## When to use the guide on this page

We only recommend following the guide on this page, if you have one or more outdated Sentry dependencies, of either the SDK, Sentry CLI, or Sentry bundler plugins.

Use the guide on this page if you're using one of the following:

- JavaScript SDK: version `7.46.0` or lower
- Bundler Plugins
  - `@sentry/webpack-plugin` package: version `2.1.0` or lower
  - `@sentry/vite-plugin` package: version `0.7.1` or lower
  - `@sentry/esbuild-plugin` package: version `0.7.1` or lower
  - `@sentry/rollup-plugin` package: version `0.7.1` or lower
- `sentry-cli`: version `2.16.1` or lower

If all of your Sentry dependencies are on more up-to-date versions than in the list above, we recommend reading the <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps">regular guide</PlatformLink>.

## What happens, if I am using one of these old dependencies?

If your application uses an old version of our SDK or bundler plugin (or sentry-cli), the result will roughly be the same. You can still upload source maps; however, the process will differ. Instead of using Debug IDs, you'll be using releases, to match an events stack frame with its corresponding minified source and source map file (known as artifacts).

## Uploading Source maps using our Bundler Plugin

Our guides on uploading source maps with our bundler plugins are applicable to any version your application might use. Visit <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps">the regular Source Maps guide</PlatformLink> to find an applicable guide.

## Uploading Source Maps using `sentry-cli`

Here is our guide to uploading artifacts using [releases](/product/releases/)

### 1. Update SDK Options

To match events with the correct release, you must provide a `release` property in the SDK options:

```javascript
Sentry.init({
  // This value must be identical to the name you give the release that you
  // create below using `sentry-cli`.
  release: "<release_name>",
});
```

### 2. Create a New Release

You must first create a release with `sentry-cli`. The release name must be unique within your organization:

```bash
sentry-cli releases new <release_name>
```

### 3. Upload Artifacts

Next, upload your artifacts (minified sources and source maps):

```bash
sentry-cli sourcemaps upload --release=<release_name> /path/to/directory
```

#### Verify Artifacts Were Uploaded

Open up Sentry and navigate to **[Settings] » Projects » Select your project » Source Maps** on Sentry.

## Summary

It can come with some headaches, but you can still upload source maps regardless of what version of our SDK or bundler plugin (or sentry-cli) your application depends on. Visit <PlatformLink to="/sourcemaps/troubleshooting_js">the regular Source Maps guide</PlatformLink> if you experience any problems following our guides.
