src/platforms/android/configuration/integrations/okhttp.mdx, before:

---
title: OkHttp
caseStyle: camelCase
supportLevel: production
sdk: sentry.java.android.okhttp
description: "Learn more about the Sentry OkHttp integration for the Android SDK."
categories:
  - mobile
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/android/guides/okhttp/
---

The `sentry-android-okhttp` library provides [OkHttp](https://github.com/square/okhttp) support for Sentry via the [OkHttp Interceptor](https://github.com/square/okhttp/blob/a2059dedc0b1d4a977480834ae4ed9ea576a3eb8/okhttp/src/main/kotlin/okhttp3/Interceptor.kt). The source can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/tree/main/sentry-android-okhttp/src/main/java/io/sentry/android/okhttp).

On this page, we get you up and running with Sentry's OkHttp Integration, so that it will automatically add a breadcrumb and start a span out of the active span bound to the scope for each HTTP Request.

<Note>

The minimum supported version of `okhttp` is `3.13.0` due to its [incompatibilities](https://medium.com/square-corner-blog/okhttp-3-13-requires-android-5-818bb78d07ce) with Android versions below 5.0. However, you are free to adapt our [SentryOkHttpInterceptor](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/blob/main/sentry-android-okhttp/src/main/java/io/sentry/android/okhttp/SentryOkHttpInterceptor.kt) if you're using an older `okhttp` version.

</Note>

## Auto-Installation With the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin

Starting from version `3.1.0`, the Sentry Android Gradle plugin will automatically add the `sentry-android-okhttp` dependency and instrument all of your `OkHttpClient` instances through bytecode manipulation. The plugin will only add the `sentry-android-okhttp` dependency if an `okhttp` dependency was discovered on the classpath.
Starting from version `3.11.0`, the Sentry Android Gradle plugin will also automatically add the `SentryOkHttpEventListener` to your `OkHttpClient` instances through bytecode manipulation.

### Install

Add the Sentry Android Gradle plugin in `build.gradle`:

```groovy
buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
}

plugins {
  id "io.sentry.android.gradle" version "{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.0.0') }}"
}
```

```kotlin
buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
}

plugins {
  id("io.sentry.android.gradle") version "{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.0.0') }}"
}
```

Then, initialize the [Android SDK](/platforms/android/#configure).

### Disable

If you would like to disable the OkHttp instrumentation feature, we expose a configuration option for that:

```groovy
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = true
    features = EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature) - InstrumentationFeature.OKHTTP
  }
}
```

```kotlin
import java.util.EnumSet
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(true)
    features.set(EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature::class.java) - InstrumentationFeature.OKHTTP)
  }
}
```

<Note>

Learn more about the Sentry Android Gradle plugin in our [Gradle](/platforms/android/gradle/) documentation.

</Note>

## Manual Installation

### Install

Sentry captures data by adding an `OkHttp Interceptor` and an `OkHttp EventListener`. To add the OkHttp integration, initialize the [Android SDK](/platforms/android/), then add the `sentry-android-okhttp` dependency using Gradle:

```groovy
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android', '5.0.0') }}'
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android-okhttp:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.okhttp', '5.0.0') }}'
```

### Configure

<Note>

The SentryOkHttpEventListener is available in Sentry's Android SDK version `6.20.0` and above.

</Note>

Configuration should happen once you create your `OkHttpClient` instance.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor())
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .build()
```

```java
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;

private final OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor())
  .eventListener(new SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .build();
```

The SDK uses the `SentryOkHttpInterceptor` to support [Distributed Tracing](/product/sentry-basics/tracing/distributed-tracing/) and creates a span for any http call.
The SDK can give more in-depth information through the `SentryOkHttpEventListener` by creating a span for each operation reported by OkHttp, inlcuding: dns setup, proxy selection, http connect, ssl setup, send request headers, send request body, receive response headers, and receive response body.

## Verify

This snippet includes a HTTP Request and captures an intentional message, so you can test that everything is working as soon as you set it up:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.Sentry
import java.io.IOException
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import okhttp3.Request

@Throws(IOException::class)
fun run(url: String): String? {
  val request = Request.Builder()
    .url(url)
    .build()

  val bodyStr = client
    .newCall(request)
    .execute()
    .body?.toString()

  Sentry.captureMessage("The Message $bodyStr")

  return bodyStr
}
```

```java
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;
import io.sentry.Sentry
import java.io.IOException;
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import okhttp3.Request;
import okhttp3.ResponseBody;

String run(String url) throws IOException {
  Request request = new Request.Builder()
    .url(url)
    .build();

  ResponseBody body = client
    .newCall(request)
    .execute()
    .body();

  String bodyStr = body != null ? body.toString() : null;

  Sentry.captureMessage("The Message " + bodyStr);

  return bodyStr;
}
```

<Note>

Learn more about manually capturing an error or message, in our <PlatformLink to="/usage/">Usage documentation</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

To view and resolve the recorded message, log into [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) and open your project. Clicking on the error's title will open a page where you can see detailed information and mark it as resolved.

## Customize the Recorded Span

The captured span can be customized or dropped with a `BeforeSpanCallback`:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.ISpan
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import okhttp3.Request
import okhttp3.Response

class CustomBeforeSpanCallback : SentryOkHttpInterceptor.BeforeSpanCallback {
  override fun execute(span: ISpan, request: Request, response: Response?): ISpan? {
    return if (request.url.toUri().toString().contains("/admin")) {
      null
    } else {
      span
    }
  }
}
```

```java
import io.sentry.ISpan;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;
import okhttp3.Request;
import okhttp3.Response;

class CustomBeforeSpanCallback implements SentryOkHttpInterceptor.BeforeSpanCallback {
  public ISpan execute(ISpan span, Request request, Response response) {
    if (request.getUrl().toUri().toString().contains("/admin")) {
      return null;
    } else {
      return span;
    }
  }
}
```

The callback instance must be set on the `SentryOkHttpInterceptor` once you create your `OkHttpClient` instance.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build()
```

```java
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;

private final OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(new SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor(new CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build();
```

## Using Multiple Event Listeners

The event listener can propagate calls to another `EventListener` or `EventListener.Factory` that's set on the `SentryOkHttpEventListener` once you create your `OkHttpClient` instance.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener(MyEventListener()))
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build()
```

```java
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;

private final OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(new SentryOkHttpEventListener(new MyEventListener()))
  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor(new CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build();
```

## HTTP Client Errors

This feature, once enabled, automatically captures HTTP client errors, like bad response codes, as error events and reports them to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data, such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.

This feature is opt-in and can be enabled by setting the `captureFailedRequests` option to `true`:

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(captureFailedRequests = true))
  .build()
```

By default, only HTTP client errors with a response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option:

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.HttpStatusCodeRange

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(
    captureFailedRequests = true,
    failedRequestStatusCodes = listOf(HttpStatusCodeRange(400, 599))))
  .build()
```

HTTP client errors from every target (`.*` regular expression) are automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option with either a regular expression or a plain `String`. A plain string must contain at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings don't have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.HttpStatusCodeRange

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(
    captureFailedRequests = true,
    failedRequestTargets = listOf("myapi.com")))
  .build()
```

By default, error events won't contain any PII data, such as `Headers` and `Cookies`, but you can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`:

```xml {filename:AndroidManifest.xml}
<application>
  <meta-data android:name="io.sentry.send-default-pii" android:value="true" />
</application>
```

Those events are searchable and you can set alerts on them if you use the `http.url` and `http.status_code` properties. Learn more in our full [Searchable Properties](/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/) documentation.

### Customize or Drop the Error Event

To customize or drop the error event, you need to do a [manual initialization](/platforms/android/configuration/manual-init/) of the Sentry Android SDK.

The captured error event can be customized or dropped with a `BeforeSendCallback`:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.android.core.SentryAndroid
import io.sentry.SentryOptions.BeforeSendCallback
import okhttp3.Request
import okhttp3.Response
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_REQUEST
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_RESPONSE

SentryAndroid.init(this) { options ->
  // Add a callback that will be used before the event is sent to Sentry.
  // With this callback, you can modify the event or, when returning null, also discard the event.
  options.beforeSend = BeforeSendCallback { event, hint ->
    val request = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_REQUEST, Request::class.java)
    val response = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_RESPONSE, Response::class.java)

    // customize or drop the event
    event
  }
}
```

### Automatically Captured HTTP Client Errors and Manually Captured Errors

When `captureFailedRequests` is enabled, some HTTP client libraries throw unchecked exceptions like `retrofit2.HttpException`. In this case, the error event is captured twice; once by the HTTP client library and once by the Sentry Android SDK:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.Sentry
import retrofit2.HttpException

try {
  // If this API call returns 500, it will be captured as an error event by the `SentryOkHttpInterceptor`.
  return GitHubAPI.service.listReposAsync("getsentry")
} catch (e: HttpException) {
  // Do not manually capture this exception to avoid duplicated error events.
  // Sentry.captureException(e)
}
```

We recommend you identify those errors and **not** capture them manually with the `Sentry.captureException` method.

Commit message:

chore(android): Mention sdk 7.0.0 will capture failed HTTP requests by default

src/platforms/android/configuration/integrations/okhttp.mdx, after:

---
title: OkHttp
caseStyle: camelCase
supportLevel: production
sdk: sentry.java.android.okhttp
description: "Learn more about the Sentry OkHttp integration for the Android SDK."
categories:
  - mobile
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/android/guides/okhttp/
---

The `sentry-android-okhttp` library provides [OkHttp](https://github.com/square/okhttp) support for Sentry via the [OkHttp Interceptor](https://github.com/square/okhttp/blob/a2059dedc0b1d4a977480834ae4ed9ea576a3eb8/okhttp/src/main/kotlin/okhttp3/Interceptor.kt). The source can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/tree/main/sentry-android-okhttp/src/main/java/io/sentry/android/okhttp).

On this page, we get you up and running with Sentry's OkHttp Integration, so that it will automatically add a breadcrumb and start a span out of the active span bound to the scope for each HTTP Request.

<Note>

The minimum supported version of `okhttp` is `3.13.0` due to its [incompatibilities](https://medium.com/square-corner-blog/okhttp-3-13-requires-android-5-818bb78d07ce) with Android versions below 5.0. However, you are free to adapt our [SentryOkHttpInterceptor](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/blob/main/sentry-android-okhttp/src/main/java/io/sentry/android/okhttp/SentryOkHttpInterceptor.kt) if you're using an older `okhttp` version.

</Note>

## Auto-Installation With the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin

Starting from version `3.1.0`, the Sentry Android Gradle plugin will automatically add the `sentry-android-okhttp` dependency and instrument all of your `OkHttpClient` instances through bytecode manipulation. The plugin will only add the `sentry-android-okhttp` dependency if an `okhttp` dependency was discovered on the classpath.
Starting from version `3.11.0`, the Sentry Android Gradle plugin will also automatically add the `SentryOkHttpEventListener` to your `OkHttpClient` instances through bytecode manipulation.

### Install

Add the Sentry Android Gradle plugin in `build.gradle`:

```groovy
buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
}

plugins {
  id "io.sentry.android.gradle" version "{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.0.0') }}"
}
```

```kotlin
buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
  }
}

plugins {
  id("io.sentry.android.gradle") version "{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.0.0') }}"
}
```

Then, initialize the [Android SDK](/platforms/android/#configure).

### Disable

If you would like to disable the OkHttp instrumentation feature, we expose a configuration option for that:

```groovy
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled = true
    features = EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature) - InstrumentationFeature.OKHTTP
  }
}
```

```kotlin
import java.util.EnumSet
import io.sentry.android.gradle.extensions.InstrumentationFeature

sentry {
  tracingInstrumentation {
    enabled.set(true)
    features.set(EnumSet.allOf(InstrumentationFeature::class.java) - InstrumentationFeature.OKHTTP)
  }
}
```

<Note>

Learn more about the Sentry Android Gradle plugin in our [Gradle](/platforms/android/gradle/) documentation.

</Note>

## Manual Installation

### Install

Sentry captures data by adding an `OkHttp Interceptor` and an `OkHttp EventListener`. To add the OkHttp integration, initialize the [Android SDK](/platforms/android/), then add the `sentry-android-okhttp` dependency using Gradle:

```groovy
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android', '5.0.0') }}'
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-android-okhttp:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.okhttp', '5.0.0') }}'
```

### Configure

<Note>

The SentryOkHttpEventListener is available in Sentry's Android SDK version `6.20.0` and above.

</Note>

Configuration should happen once you create your `OkHttpClient` instance.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor())
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .build()
```

```java
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;

private final OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor())
  .eventListener(new SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .build();
```

The SDK uses the `SentryOkHttpInterceptor` to support [Distributed Tracing](/product/sentry-basics/tracing/distributed-tracing/) and creates a span for any http call.
The SDK can give more in-depth information through the `SentryOkHttpEventListener` by creating a span for each operation reported by OkHttp, inlcuding: dns setup, proxy selection, http connect, ssl setup, send request headers, send request body, receive response headers, and receive response body.

## Verify

This snippet includes a HTTP Request and captures an intentional message, so you can test that everything is working as soon as you set it up:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.Sentry
import java.io.IOException
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import okhttp3.Request

@Throws(IOException::class)
fun run(url: String): String? {
  val request = Request.Builder()
    .url(url)
    .build()

  val bodyStr = client
    .newCall(request)
    .execute()
    .body?.toString()

  Sentry.captureMessage("The Message $bodyStr")

  return bodyStr
}
```

```java
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;
import io.sentry.Sentry
import java.io.IOException;
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import okhttp3.Request;
import okhttp3.ResponseBody;

String run(String url) throws IOException {
  Request request = new Request.Builder()
    .url(url)
    .build();

  ResponseBody body = client
    .newCall(request)
    .execute()
    .body();

  String bodyStr = body != null ? body.toString() : null;

  Sentry.captureMessage("The Message " + bodyStr);

  return bodyStr;
}
```

<Note>

Learn more about manually capturing an error or message, in our <PlatformLink to="/usage/">Usage documentation</PlatformLink>.

</Note>

To view and resolve the recorded message, log into [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) and open your project. Clicking on the error's title will open a page where you can see detailed information and mark it as resolved.

## Customize the Recorded Span

The captured span can be customized or dropped with a `BeforeSpanCallback`:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.ISpan
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import okhttp3.Request
import okhttp3.Response

class CustomBeforeSpanCallback : SentryOkHttpInterceptor.BeforeSpanCallback {
  override fun execute(span: ISpan, request: Request, response: Response?): ISpan? {
    return if (request.url.toUri().toString().contains("/admin")) {
      null
    } else {
      span
    }
  }
}
```

```java
import io.sentry.ISpan;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;
import okhttp3.Request;
import okhttp3.Response;

class CustomBeforeSpanCallback implements SentryOkHttpInterceptor.BeforeSpanCallback {
  public ISpan execute(ISpan span, Request request, Response response) {
    if (request.getUrl().toUri().toString().contains("/admin")) {
      return null;
    } else {
      return span;
    }
  }
}
```

The callback instance must be set on the `SentryOkHttpInterceptor` once you create your `OkHttpClient` instance.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build()
```

```java
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;

private final OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(new SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor(new CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build();
```

## Using Multiple Event Listeners

The event listener can propagate calls to another `EventListener` or `EventListener.Factory` that's set on the `SentryOkHttpEventListener` once you create your `OkHttpClient` instance.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener(MyEventListener()))
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build()
```

```java
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener;
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor;

private final OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(new SentryOkHttpEventListener(new MyEventListener()))
  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor(new CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build();
```

## HTTP Client Errors

This feature automatically captures HTTP client errors, like bad response codes, as error events and reports them to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data, such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.

Starting with SDK version `7.0.0` HTTP client error capturing is enabled by default. For prior versions of the SDK this feature is opt-in and can be enabled by setting the `captureFailedRequests` option to `true`:

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(captureFailedRequests = true))
  .build()
```

By default, only HTTP client errors with a response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option:

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.HttpStatusCodeRange

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(
    captureFailedRequests = true,
    failedRequestStatusCodes = listOf(HttpStatusCodeRange(400, 599))))
  .build()
```

HTTP client errors from every target (`.*` regular expression) are automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option with either a regular expression or a plain `String`. A plain string must contain at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings don't have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpEventListener
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.HttpStatusCodeRange

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .eventListener(SentryOkHttpEventListener())
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(
    captureFailedRequests = true,
    failedRequestTargets = listOf("myapi.com")))
  .build()
```

By default, error events won't contain any PII data, such as `Headers` and `Cookies`, but you can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`:

```xml {filename:AndroidManifest.xml}
<application>
  <meta-data android:name="io.sentry.send-default-pii" android:value="true" />
</application>
```

Those events are searchable and you can set alerts on them if you use the `http.url` and `http.status_code` properties. Learn more in our full [Searchable Properties](/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/) documentation.

### Customize or Drop the Error Event

To customize or drop the error event, you need to do a [manual initialization](/platforms/android/configuration/manual-init/) of the Sentry Android SDK.

The captured error event can be customized or dropped with a `BeforeSendCallback`:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.android.core.SentryAndroid
import io.sentry.SentryOptions.BeforeSendCallback
import okhttp3.Request
import okhttp3.Response
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_REQUEST
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_RESPONSE

SentryAndroid.init(this) { options ->
  // Add a callback that will be used before the event is sent to Sentry.
  // With this callback, you can modify the event or, when returning null, also discard the event.
  options.beforeSend = BeforeSendCallback { event, hint ->
    val request = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_REQUEST, Request::class.java)
    val response = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_RESPONSE, Response::class.java)

    // customize or drop the event
    event
  }
}
```

### Automatically Captured HTTP Client Errors and Manually Captured Errors

When `captureFailedRequests` is enabled, some HTTP client libraries throw unchecked exceptions like `retrofit2.HttpException`. In this case, the error event is captured twice; once by the HTTP client library and once by the Sentry Android SDK:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.Sentry
import retrofit2.HttpException

try {
  // If this API call returns 500, it will be captured as an error event by the `SentryOkHttpInterceptor`.
  return GitHubAPI.service.listReposAsync("getsentry")
} catch (e: HttpException) {
  // Do not manually capture this exception to avoid duplicated error events.
  // Sentry.captureException(e)
}
```

We recommend you identify those errors and **not** capture them manually with the `Sentry.captureException` method.
